I guess,
What kind of experience have, then with child care?
I think, I wonder if that worked.
Does it say something?
I think it usually does.
You might try,
I don't know,
hold it down a little longer,
see if it,
Okay .
Does it usually make a recording or s ,
I don't remember.
It seemed like it did,
it might not.
I guess
I guess we can start.
have any kids.
she just had a baby,
he's about five months old
she was worrying about going back to work and what she was going to do with him and
the different,
do you have kids?
I have three.
I do .
I don't work, though,
I used to work when I had two children.
I work off and on just temporarily and usually find friends to babysit,
I don't envy anybody who's in that situation to find day care.
does your sister live in a big community?
she lives,
fairly large community.
She, got real lucky, though.
He had a boss who, moved into a larger office
she's able to take her baby to work with her.
it's a small office that she works in
it's just one lawyer
she's the only one really that takes care of the office.
There's no one else that works there.
they have an extra room and everything for the baby,
it works out pretty good for her.
How lucky .
know a lot of people around here sometimes have, mothers or grandmothers
that take care of their kids
the community I'm in is not a real large one,
there are a lot of people who babysit in their homes that,
you either know them or know somebody who knows them , to get to,
it's fairly safe.
to get references and that,
feel comfortable about leaving my kids in a big day care center, simply because there's so many kids and so many ,
Worried that they're not going to get enough attention?
colds and things like that get
spread real easy and things,
they're expensive
course, there's a lot of different types of day care available, too, where they teach them academic things.
they just watch them and let them play and things like that,
take a long time to find the right place
don't always even know if going to be the right place or not.
Anything, I guess, could happen.
he, gets to a certain age she's going to have to take him to a day care.
when he starts toddling around and stuff.
when she can't keep control of him
he starts crawling
It would be hard,
I think it would be kind of stressful.
It would be nice to have him around
seems like,
goll ,
what if he cried at the wrong time
the phone rang
at the wrong time .
I think she has problems with that, too.
when you have kids, will you work?
Do you
I don't know
work now?
that's something I've considered.
I always kind of think it would be neat to be able to watch them and be there for them all the time.
Is that what you do?
I teach my kids at home,
I'm here all the time.
they don't go to school.
Is it like,
what's that called,
it's, correspondence school,
they do it
at home.
That's interesting.
Do you have to have any special training?
it depends on the state you live actually.
Some laws absolutely prohibit it.
Some states, say that you have to be a certified teacher in order to do that.
Our state doesn't yet, say that
I'm not a certified teacher.
I went to college,
are only elementary right now
they haven't been to public schools at all.
One of them was for a couple of years
my oldest, he was,
my youngest two have never been.
we don't,
you've never had,
does the company you work for test for drugs?
they just recently started a policy of testing drugs, which was kind of interesting,
I went to work for them, they didn't do that,
since then started a drug testing policy, not because of their own, convictions, but because the clients of our company requests that we do that.
How about you?
we're not being tested for drugs at all,
our policies and procedures manual, the furthest it goes about drugs is in miscellaneous section, or
it's reasons for immediate dismissal,
it says, use of narcotics on company premises.
that's pretty general,
I work for an environmental management firm
I'm an engineer there,
I do go on a lot of hazardous waste sites,
I don't operate any machinery.
people for our company that do operate machinery like drill rigs and things like that
are under medical monitoring program,
they're at a higher risk of exposure
blood screening is part of that
think that drugs,
they do test for drugs in that capacity,
it's not their exclusive,
that turns up in the other parameters that they test for.
I think it's got a little more relevance since they are around dangerous equipment and things like that and do have to exercise some quick judgment in the field.
What is the nature of your company's business?
it's actually,
we do oil well services.
a lot of our clients are
they go out to,
we have engineers who, go out client's oil well, work with a lot of heavy equipment and put tools down the oil well and stuff,
the clients are very concerned that, the engineers who go out there are adhering to their drug policy, because they're on territory and everything,
the thing that's interesting is that engineer a software engineer
I work in the software, house,
everybody there, are all software engineers.
go out to oil rigs or anything,
yet, to this policy, the same one that, engineers have
a little different, actually,
we have to go through the same thing,
it's a little different, I guess a lot of drug policies.
In our case, it's like, when you hire on, they'll test you,
then if you get injured on the job, if you trip and fall or something, they give you a drug test right away.
Other than that they don't have random testing or anything like that,
a lot of people were really upset with the policy at first.
Particularly, , we have a lot of parties and stuff where they serve alcohol,
didn't find any problem with that,
been an issue, in our company even though we don't have the random or even regular drug screening.
((In fact)), they'll have these little parties,
people will just get,
my brother lives where I work,
I have many a time called him to come get me,
they don't think twice about serving beer by the keg.
Yeah .
I think drug testing,
don't know,
I think it's got some relevance,
I think its relevance is pretty limited.
I think,
in your case, I don't think that you should necessarily be subjected to drug testing.
I think that's an interesting policy your company has about testing immediately after an on the job accident.
particularly, where we are,
there was a story of a woman last year actually did slip on the ice sprained her ankle
was a personnel secretary
she had to get tested
I don't know
I'm ambivalent about the whole thing.
have a lot of mixed feelings about on the one hand, it's like if,
be able to make it as a continue of employment in some sense
it's like contractual by nature anyway
I had an experience when I was interviewing for a job where I had to, do a drug test
kind of a long story,
just an incredibly humiliating experience what I went through,
it amounted to, going in, before any of these interviews,
I'm not even working for this company,
I'm going in for, interviews
they flew me out to Chicago
before I went into any of the interviews, they took me to the doctor to give me a physical.
They said it was going to be a physical,
they told me they were going to, do drug screening,
I had forgotten about that,
basically, I'd already peed off ((in)) that morning
when I got in there, able to give a full sample,
they made me sit and wait for forty five minutes, drink a whole ton of water
before I went to any of the interviews and go in there again,
procedure is utterly humiliating.
You go in there with the doctor,
he makes you take off all your clothes
he examines you.
the question was kind of interesting to me because I was just trying to put together a, long term financial plan and monthly budget.
The only thing I do now is, put the data into Quicken.
I don't know if you are familiar with that.
I have some friends of mine who use Quicken
I've considered using it once myself,
I decided that the amount of information that would have to go in would be a lot of time keeping that up to date.
kind of gave up on the idea of using Quicken, at least for now.
I've found it's the only reliable way to keep a check book balanced actually because what will happen is my wife will write a few checks and then, not bother to total it
it comes in to doing all the arithmetic.
it really helps with that.
it's similar problems
we just have the one check book
we try to keep it up to date as much as possible
occasionally we will get behind like you say
it doesn't really seem to be tight if we just remember to keep everything to date and balanced.
how to you handle that, the long range or medium range planning on finances?
we haven't had to. until just recently.
I guess we've got daughter who is eighteen months and another one on the way
we needed to start doing more of that just for, saving for college and things like that.
We away two and four thousand a year just for that.
that's pretty good if you can do that.
I know.
I have a daughter who's ten
we haven't really put much away for her college up to this point
we're to the point now where our financial income is enough that we can consider putting some away
for college,
we are going to be starting a regular payroll deduction
in the fall
the money that I will be making this summer we'll be putting away for the college fund.
Sounds good.
I guess just at the point,
my wife worked until we had a family
now we're just going on the one income
a lot more interesting trying to,
find some extra payroll deductions is probably the only way we will be able to, do it.
kind of enforce the savings.
it will be interesting to see (( )).
our situation is just of that cause my wife was not working for some time and was going to school and just recently, took on a full time job, almost full time.
it's only recently that we've had the money where we could start putting away large sums of it for, long range goals like college and sickness and
travel and that kind of thing.
That sounds good.
I was just curious, what, part of the country.
How about you?
Cincinnati, actually.
I was kind of wondering if they would be collecting people with, the western accents or something like that.
I don't know how many people are, getting involved in this
that's interesting.
was kind of interested if you found out about the study by, reading TELECOM DIGEST
was there another?
a colleague of mine at, work got some information over, the computer network called INTERNET.
that is how I got it as well
he just forwarded that on to me
it sounded like it would be an interesting project
to participate in
it will be interesting to see what,
sent back (( )) mail.
It would be interesting to see how the data base,
(( )) I guess we're talking about the experiment.
probably need to try to get back on the topic
it's hard to talk about finances getting to, dollar figures I guess
we could talk about some of the long range goals
what other long range goals do you have besides college?
I think, either my wife or I would like to pursue advanced degrees at some point
I guess we will have to factor that in if we are not working for employers that happen to fund that.
It seems like every year my employer just gives back, a little bit your tuition reimbursement.
they use to reimburse one hundred percent
reimbursement depending on the grade you get in class
it's a real shame from what we had before, because we're,
I lived over in Europe for a couple of years,
I lived in Germany
in Germany they don't have the jury system.
What they do is they have, three judges, basically.
you get up there
the prosecuting attorney presents his evidence
your defense attorney presents their evidence
those three guys take the evidence, go off, figure it out and then come back and say whether you're guilty or not.
our judicial system is in such total chaos.
I think what they need to do is, they need to somehow take the money out of it.
when you have a man that's signed a statement saying he's guilty,
we have family called All day family.
They were all murdered.
All the people signed confessions,
they went to a trial by jury.
They been trying these people now for twenty two years, ever since I was a child.
what they've done is they've bought Mercedes after Mercedes after Mercedes is what they've done,
has nothing to do with justice whatsoever.
one of those things,
I would have to look at it.
they did it with judges, the police have to do a lot better job of making sure that their evidence is airtight
the judges sitting in that kind of stuff day after day, they know all the procedures,
they know what's good and what isn't,
they'd be able to say, I'm sorry,
you can't use this as, evidence, because it was either illegally obtained or whatever
you wouldn't have this, theatrics where the lawyer jumps up and presents it jury
the judge says, no,
Come on,
any jury's not going to disregard the evidence, .
that's true.
I think our judicial system is attorney welfare myself.
That may very well be.
hold it in the utmost contempt.
my favorite is the police department,
they're not aimed at the criminal.
The judicial system is aimed at the citizens
you and I, we have work schedules,
we can be called at work,
we have Social Security numbers,
they can trace us down,
we have telephones,
then we have checkbooks.
Criminals have none of these things.
They're real difficult to catch,
if they do catch them, they don't get any monetary gain out of it, whereas write a check.
where do you think they target their efforts?
That's true.
((You d )),
They target their efforts toward the citizens
not the criminals.
How would you go about changing it?
that's a,
I've nailed the problem down
Leave the details up to somebody else,
I'm going to have to leave those details like, what would you do about,
I think, to begin with,
here in Atlanta area, our crime rate is just astronomical,
you go out on the streets
they're giving speeding tickets.
I think somehow you have to separate the revenues from,
talking about the lawyers, what might very well drop in the number of lawyers and things like that, is to set the fees for cases.
It's kind of like in the similar vein V C R or television repair.
If you take your T V in, a lot of these T V repair places will say, I'll repair your T V for a hundred dollars,
if he gets in there and starts rooting around and finds something in there that's really tremendously wrong with it, then he eats it.
repairs it, gives it back to you, and takes your hundred dollars.
if he comes in and says, I'll repair V C R, or somebody else's V C R, for a hundred dollars, gets in there,
maybe it's a blown fuse,
takes him two minutes,
he fixes it,
he still charges you that hundred dollars.
maybe if we did that with the lawyers, so that, whether it's a murder case or somebody suing somebody else, you get X dollars for that case
that's it.
None of this,
I firmly believe in that
when you get the most heinous of crimes, have you ever noticed you always get the most renowned defense attorney?
here's this bum that didn't have a job
he's got a attorney that you and I could never afford.
That's true.
paying for that?
you're talking to part of them that's paying for that .
you're talking to the other half that's paying for it
That's right.
it's, it's amazing
when you stop and look at it, the judges, all former lawyers.
that's another problem.
I think to really correct the judicial system, you have to get the lawyers out of it .
totally and morally bankrupt without any ethics whatsoever,
with that type person running it, could expect that you,
Do you know anyone that, in a nursing home or has ever been in one?
were looking into it before
I know what they've said.
I'm trying to think.
My, wife's grandmother had Alzheimer's
they were going to put her into nursing home
put her in, she had all kinds of trouble
the nursing home made them come and take her back because she was being a, a nuisance. Or worse than a nuisance,
they thought it was too much of a bother.
she sort of went, bananas
they deal with her .
I guess you need to, know whether it's no deposit, no return kind of thing whether ,
If they're equipped handle the kind of patients you're going to have
put in there too.
I know my grandparents wanted to have some independence still.
They wanted some place they can go and have their meals and a nurse on staff just in case they needed her
they wanted to be independent as well.
Have their own room.
My grandmother actually was in nursing home that,
there was a retirement hotel and then a,
there was some sort of full time care place that was also associated with it
for, the first few years she had her own apartment and, made her own meals sometimes. But also go and eat someplace else.
as she became less able to take care of herself, then she moved into this other part that was able to, provide full time care
she didn't have to do anything anymore.
my experience has been that most people that move into nursing homes die very quickly.
that's som ,
I don't know whether that's because they, sort of give up hope once they get in there or what reason is.
I think the average length of time that somebody lives in a nursing home is only six months or something.
a lot of it's probably to do with the fact that people go to it because they need help.
They need health care
they're already ill before they go.
That's probably a large factor.
you can take care of yourself at all or have someone that can take care of you, then you stay where you are.
Then you only go there as a last resort.
people send you there as a last resort.
That's what my grandparents,
it was just so that the rest of the relatives would have peace of mind knowing that if anything happened, there was somebody there for them.
that was their thinking.
Somebody who would know what to do in the event of an emergency.
also so they could find someplace that they enjoyed while they still had choices to make.
So they wouldn't be stuck going into just whatever nursing home was available at the time.
I guess that's a problem too for people. Wait lists and all.
I guess.
you can't always get in when you want too
of course, you can't just sit around and wait.
When you need it, you need it
I guess.
the money is also another issue. How you're going to pay for it.
At that stage of life you only have so much money left
I guess it's not exactly fair for the younger family members to have to put it in their savings.
it is kind of fair,
it's also not fair because they have their own children to raise.
it's another problem.
wouldn't want someone choosing a place for you to live based on lowest price.
just so complicated anymore, I think .
People outlive their savings.
with medicine being the way it is, you're extending life where sometimes the quality of living has gone down
they're not necessarily enjoying life anymore.
maybe that's the purpose of the nursing home is to have them go someplace where they can see that it's not worth continuing.
It's just a shame that's the way it has to be.
I think
the retirement home idea's a nice idea. To go and find older people and with similar interests and someplace to stay
cause if your spouse died, (( )) all alone, it'd be nice to go someplace with people similar to you.
To have friends.
I've known quite a few people that have, gone to retirement communities.
I don't know if they have them back there
here in California and in Ari ,
what do you think, about putting the elderly in a nursing home?
I think that varies the individual basis.
sometimes no alternative.
huh .
you do not have, family available or family that's,
you may not even have family
That's true.
sometimes it's not an alternative.
also, sometimes it can be, a benefit if it's for a short time.
Sometimes in a nursing home
especially it's after an acute illness.
To get over a,
to rehab after, an illness.
That's true.
I never thought of that.
the nursing homes are good for, just short periods of time.
That's true,
until they get over that hump
of whatever it is they're dealing with.
too often the acute hospitals them out much faster than what they're
really able to.
They really are.
They don't like to keep them
longer than a week.
there is some good to it.
sometimes too, it's used as a dumb job.
the fam ,
What do you mean?
the families do not necessarily , know what to do with them
they don't want to take the responsibility
they will put them in a nursing home.
that's true.
you see,
there's both sides to it too.
What do you think?
it depends on sick the person is too. What you're capable of, if you have a family to take care of, of your own .
I would personally like it
if my parents were to get ill, I would like to take care of them at home and if I had the money with some help.
That's not always possible.
That's true.
to the best of my ability, I'd like to do it until it gets impossible .
I think that's also where you're going to have a lot of people who are going to,
not a choice, it's
because, it's not economically feasible even to
huh .
put them in a nursing home.
option sometimes is not available if they do not have either Medicare or insurance to cover it.
That's true.
I think nursing homes can be good.
It just depends on what kind they are.
you need to check them out ahead of time.
there's also some that are set up for specialties
I know some.
Unfortunately, some elderly I guess it's Alzheimer's or where
they wonder confused or have some mental problem .
that they're ,
you need a special nursing home for that.
You need one that has a unit that's locked where they are not able to get out and roam around
you need people who are trained for that type
of problem.
Who know what they're doing with that.
there's different types of nursing homes I think.
my, grandmother's not really in a nursing home, but a retirement home that also has a nursing home sort of attached to it.
she really liked the idea moving there.
She's not ill yet
she worked there as a volunteer for about ten years
she decided eventually, doesn't want her family taking care of her and being a burden.
She's very independent.
she's in this nursing home.
It's out in the country
she really enjoys it right now because she doesn't have to wash dishes or cook .
Gives her a little bit of her own independence
she still has, a security there.
Some support.
there's also, sort of a wing for those people that do get sick
what I like about it and I think she likes about it is that she knows everybody there now
if she ever does become ill, it will be like family around her.
That's right
I've seen some of them like that too
also they have a lot of, activities going on for the ones
huh .
who are more active.
Sh ,
it's not sort of like,
huh .
a sick place.
she loves it.
She has a great social life
she travels
it's in the mountains
it's beautiful
hope that I have something like that when I get older .
I think the,
huh .
I think that the decision that needs to be made though on nursing home has to be a joint one between the, elderly
person who's going in and the family that's going to be, by it
definitely it's,
sometimes can be made in advance
the choices because of the nature of the illness when they're,
do you happen to be working for a large firm?
it's about three hundred and fifty people.
I guess that's not large compared to some,
it's big enough.
pension plan where they contribute anything
I wish they did.
they have a four O one K,
I put all the money into it.
They don't add anything.
What about you?
I work for a fairly large company.
It's got eight thousand people.
we do have health insurance.
We don't have four O plan, stuff like that,
we do have, retirement.
They kind of match up to, you,
if you put six percent, they match up to six percent,
the rest is whatever you want to put in. If you put more than that or something like that.
that's a pretty good deal.
It's not bad.
how long does it take for your contribution to vest?
I don't know.
It's probably a long time .
I'm sure it's not till twenty five years, thirty years.
the place I work at's, health insurance is kind of expensive.
It's hundred bucks month or something
for a family.
I guess what we have is benefits plan where get a certain amount of dollars
you spend it on a cafeteria of whatever you want or need.
Otherwise hold money back and then either use or lose it or can just have that money, put in your paycheck.
we have one of those use it or lose it plans, too, where, they'll basically pay for, child care type, expenses.
I request for payment
send me, a check for the amount they withheld.
That's pretty good,
saves a third off on taxes or something.
Yeah ,
it depends on which company you work for.
I know that, the one plan that everyone seems to be in, in my place is, think you call it plan D .
Deductibles are really high,
it's fifteen hundred dollars,
if you go for the other ones you're paying too much money for them because healthy, then it's really unlikely that you'd use that of money,
it, someone did start a cost benefit analysis,
ends up the best is to take a high deductible take a loss, ((it)) happens to be, if you happen to be a healthy individual .
I guess,
on the other hand, health plan
one of my kids was in a car accident
I to pay for, a bunch of doctor visits and stuff out of my pocket because insurance policy happened to cover it, which is,
You mean, not even your car insurance?
got all screwed up because I had a high deductible on the health insurance, no fault here,
I had a high deductible on the insurance
just goofed up the medical insurance and the car insurance and stuff and blew it .
that's too bad.
Yeah ,
I don't know,
I think other than health insurance, I think, an extra week of, time off would be nice.
I only get two weeks.
my place you get two weeks when you start
year they give you an extra day until you've got four weeks.
that's nice.
We don't get them your seventh year of service till
you get an extra week.
That's a long time.
especially in the kind of engineering job I'm in, companies don't stay afloat that long ,
with the telecommunications type of company, supposedly you, used to be much more stable.
It's a lot less stable than it used to be.
They used to have job security ((crap)),
now they don't.
you work for Bell or something like that?
it's the Bell Corps, which is,
I don't know,
no longer .
that's what,
I think it's still based on the old model of,
now they don't,
A lifelong job security
pioneers of America,
all that stuff,
they, longer .
I don't think so.
hearing a lo ,
laying people off, which is another benefit that you can have other than salary is trade that off for security.
they must have pretty good severance, though,
I don't know,
been doing layoffs.
We've been doing, down sizing with, getting rid of extra layers of management.
I don't know what they do for those people.
Mean the management they get rid of?
Some of it,
There's and not enough Indians
have you ever served on a jury?
I've not.
I've been called,
I had to beg off from the duty.
I was called
I was not chosen.
originally chosen primarily, I think, because I was a young fellow
they tend to view the younger fellows as more likely to hand down a guilty verdict.
I don't know why.
Something I picked up in a psychology class some time ago.
it's that the younger they are, they tend to be more conservative for some statistical oddball reason,
they kind of liked me.
I looked conser , and all that stuff
I don't know what they saw in me,
they saw it.
back to the issue,
I don't know,
at times I feel that a unanimous decision is warranted, especially in cases in which there's no smoking gun.
there, too, there are also cases in which I feel a majority rule might be acceptable, particularly, I think in civil cases.
In criminal cases, I'd like to see the remain,
in civil cases, I think a majority rule jury would be sufficient.
could you give me an example of a case where you think that?
in a criminal case, say one in which, there is, say assault or some such. I think there ought to be a unanimous, vote because by law and by constitution there must be proven beyond a shadow of a reasonable doubt that the person in question did this.
in civil law there, is such a thing as let's say, misappropriations or misuse of financial instruments or something like that.
A majority rule, I think, would be more in line as there is no real smoking gun in the civil cases.
I don't know if I'm making any sense or not.
I think,
are you just trying to say that criminal cases are more, tangible
often there's more incriminating evidence.
for instance, say,
also, too, I think tempering this and the fact that the consequences are much more, serious in a criminal case.
do you think in a civil case, if there was majority rule, that it would be easy for someone to be set up?
I really can't say for certain, truth be known.
as it stands, many ways and means by which a person can be set up, both, in a and criminal case.
the, documentary, the THIN BLUE LINE pretty much demonstrated that.
I don't know you're familiar with that or not.
I'm not.
A, fellow when he was much younger, was tried and convicted and sentenced to death.
Fortunately, in his case, the death penalty was revoked
he served out sentence until it was discovered by a fellow who was making a documentary called the THIN BLUE LINE that this guy had basically gotten railroaded through the judicial system.
The case was reopened
he was exonerated.
I think that there are many cases in our judicial system where justice is not served.
many laws, but little justice.
I also think, just like you were talking about before, why you were chosen to be on a jury that, the process of picking jurors is not always objective.
certainly not,
certainly not.
, they like to think that they're getting someone who's objective in all this,
they're really looking for someone who will pretty much fulfill the lawyers' desires.
you get up
they ask you a few questions,
both sides do,
either challenged which is,
each attorney can use that as much as they like
I think it's a limit now,
they probably have a limit now,
they pretty much go through that,
you have to give a reason to the court why you can't serve.
For me, it was financial hardship,
onto the thing, I was never aware that juries had any say on recommending sentencing.
It was always my impression that the Justice himself, or herself, had the final say.
I guess it starts recording now.
I don't that much about the recycling in this area that we're in.
We live in the Saginaw area.
I'm not real familiar with, anything that,
fact as far as I know, the school doesn't have any kind of programs or anything out here. the grocery store or anything
in this area,
The rec ,
we live in Plano
they started off recycling by, putting the,
I think at each Wal Mart, they had some recycling dumpsters and things like that, which now,
I guess the, city bought the big green trash cans
have a recycling truck that comes around now
you separate your glass and paper
and, aluminum
you set it out
they pick it up
works real neat.
They seem to be having a real good response.
That is pretty good.
originally from another state
I know in the state we were from that they did that type thing.
The city set cans
you separated your stuff
you put it in there
they took it,
like on bottles, did they give you so many cents back for
I don't really know.
for cans
((even or)),
I don't really know,
started after we moved down here
not really familiar.
I just know that, my in laws Oklahoma, that's how it up,
I don't know if they back on it
do you get money for it?
noticed it
Iowa and other cities like that, it's a nickel per aluminum can.
you don't see too many thrown out around the streets.
Really .
Or even bottles.
all kinds of bottles they really charge people I guess when you purchase them when you turn them back in.
remember the old days as a kid where bottle was a nickel.
most of them are throwaway.
maybe that's one thing they can do.
I think now they're a lot more expensive than that.
I bought some Cokes the other day in
at least ten cents apiece.
I ((started to see)), at home,
I was like, God, how much were those bottles
in eight and ten packs,
instead of six packs
two dollars and something for the bottles.
I was like God Almighty,
it costs more for the bottles than it did for the Cokes.
That was my brother's first job in a grocery store.
He was in the bottle area .
In the bot , (( )).
It's pretty dangerous out there, when they fall over,
they say that the green glass now, that there's a big glut
of green
Of green glass.
the green glass,
It's amazing.
out in this area, they really don't have anything.
Now, I know that Minyard's
and places like that around Arlington and Fort Worth and a lot of those grocery stores, they have like four different bins out front.
different colors for different things things like that,
do know some of these places were doing that
they discontinued them because people were coming and dumping their trash in them.
I notice the plastic have sort of faded away, the milk jugs.
people just,
really don't,
there's too much labor involved I guess to separate the stuff.
more than it's worth.
I don't know,
can be,
it's not as easy ,
selecting, clean junk as they say.
who wants to clean their junk before they throw it away .
That's right,
that's right.
It's like washing the dishes before you put them in the dishwasher.
We all do it .
it was nice talking to you.
It was nice talking to you.
I have no idea how long this is supposed to last or anything.
two or three minutes is
I ,
Is that it?
it was nice talking to you
guess I was going to do it for my son make some money.
then it has my name on it,
I'm like, okay,
I'll sit down here and call it .
we're doing it for a church choir
are you?
that's interesting.
That's nice.
thank you.
Thank you.
Bye bye.
Have you heard about Saturns?
I've heard some about Saturns.
I don't know a lot about them.
I haven't been over, to a dealer to look at them although I did see something in tonight's paper that said that their, reliability is rated to be equal to that of Japanese cars.
that's great.
that's kind of the type of car that thinking about we might get.
Saturns, you can't go to a dealer unless you go to Saturn dealer.
offshoot of G M .
supposedly, they've got great customer satisfaction from what things I've heard.
I've heard a lot of people like them.
yet I don't know I would buy Saturn or not at this point.
I'm kind of,
my card and, desires tend to be pretty picky
like what?
let's see.
cars that are designed human beings in mind,
that's not just the driver and the passenger
that's the person who's working on it,
I do all my own maintenance and,
((Uh huh)).
those types of things.
I found that while you can find some cars that are comfortable to ride in, finding a anymore fairly easy for me to work on,
almost unlikely at this point.
yo ,
I've got a sixty five Mustang
I, I do that myself.
when I look at modern cars and stuff like that, I just say I will never do that with the modern cars.
It's not worth my time.
You can't get in there.
You can't do anything.
it's so complicated too.
I look at it
I say, boy,
have to almost go take a class or something like that.
I've got an eighty three Saab.
I find that for It's really very easy to work on
I'm kind of spoiled.
I used to have a (( )) Chevy.
With a three fifty in it.
I really liked working on it. cause it was pretty easy too.
It was about a nineteen seventy.
I'm kind of, biased in that
I want a car that I can work on because I think it just costs too much even to get the oil changed anymore.
Yeah .
that's probably one thing I'd look at.
I think another thing I'd look at is safety.
That's one of the things that my wife and I have thought about.
we'd most like to get would be the new ninety one Ford Taurus cause they're actually one of the cheaper cars that have dual
side air bags.
That's a real nice car, I think.
Yeah .
I've driven some, Tauruses over the last couple of years when I've been on business trips.
huh .
as rental cars.
I've always been very impressed with the Taurus.
It's a really nice car.
I think stylish car both inside and out.
It's comfortable to drive.
reasonable performance,
this is out in California they don't make a car that's got reasonable performance anymore.
I've been real impressed with that.
Yo ,
I didn't realize that they were putting dual, air bags in that car now.
the ninety twos.
ninety twos had dual air bags.
This newest model.
You could
I think that)),
get them with duals .
That's excellent.
That's excellent because,
the thing is that it's twenty thousand dollars.
wife and I are actually buying a new car in the next year and a half or so.
we're actually
been looking around and thinking about things.
We'd like to get a
I don't know.
What do you call it?
A dealer return type thing on a ninety two and ninety three or something like that
Year old ninety two or something like that.
Those are
if we,
would be a good deal to go with.
the other thing we're looking at is the Saturns too.
they looked really nice.
looking for those?
attracts you to the Saturns?
of course, we've already talked,
the Taurus is safe.
kind of things are you looking for?
the Saturns you can get air bags in them.
I don't think you can get dual side air bags.
one of two things that I'm really,
I'd say the most important thing is a car that's not going to fall apart. That doesn't have problems.
You set down.
You look at consumer reports.
We've been pouring over consumer reports
you just get so depressed for the U S auto
makers when you do that.
you see the reliability and the types of problems they have
the two cars that apparently are close to that. That actually have high reliability, the Taurus is one of the highest U S cars.
the other one the Saturns.
those two things.
we kind of want a four door.
Okay .
What is your, community, currently doing with regard to recycling?
basically, they're just, having various recycling, bins, located for, trash pickup.
huh .
that's more than we have up here in Massachusetts.
local communities are very active respect
they do have bins set up.
I live in metropolitan area
they're not, too inclined to do something as aggressive as that .
here they
live in an apartment complex.
they only have one set of recycling bins, one or two sets as opposed to a set at each of the dumpsters.
a lot of the people who live up front don't bother to recycle because, it's too far to carry the stuff to the other bins.
I think a lot of, issues with regard to recycling are that, people have to be motivated something like that because it does take extra effort.
I know Massachusetts has,
a bottle bill was passed
we have had a bottle bill for quite a few years now,
the majority of the incentive in recycling bottles probably, believe it or not, is just to get the extra nickel at store and not,
that's the majority of people that I know of anyways.
Where people aren't really, eco conscious. It's just the fact that it's something they have to do.
I'm not going to throw a bottle away,
it's like throwing a nickel away.
That type of thing.
people need to be more conscious of it.
Th , here they're trying to push through a bill
a lot of people are against it.
it's going to create a lot more work for stores that sell, sodas and stuff.
they want to implement a refund on cans and on plastic bottles and everything.
Yeah .
(( )) it took awhile for that bill to be passed up here as far as recycling bottles and cans.
matter of fact, I think it took three tries it to go through.
it's been pretty successful
people notice it as far as, highways being,
people would of soda,
instead of throwing out the window, keep the bottle
been a ecologically sound policy far as recycling your bottles in terms of trash and so forth.
more importantly, it's recycling reusable materials back into, manufacturing.
that's the big thing, I think, that try to promote.
I think here out the trash and stuff, if they could get some kind of rebate, those people who do put the stuff out, and separate it, have lower collection fee or something may
that's a good idea.
people to separate.
definitely has to be a motivation factor
I know that,
I work for a defense contractor.
there's a big push on for recycling, paper materials, computer output paper and also to decrease the amount of, Styrofoam usage because of process involved in Styrofoam the whole eco issue and that.
they're very proactive
matter of fact, they give you discounts if you use, china wear rather than, Styrofoam stuff,
it's incentives like that that get more conscious of it.
I think what they need to do. Be more ((proactive)) like that.
it was last year that they actually collected the old phone books.
usually have them come from (( )) projects to collect old ones.
Usually just get dumped out with the trash.
phone books are a large volume of annual trash.
matter of fact, reminded me of an article I saw in the pa ,
the local schools, you could send your phone book your kid to school
what they'll do is they'll recycle it.
there was an article or a story done awhile ago that, are the type of thing that don't break down over a long period of time.
A guy went to dug down five feet pulled up a phone book from nineteen sixty
degrade over such a period of time.
part of the problem with recycling them in the past has been the covers are made with a clay based paper.
They contain the glue and stuff
they used to have to take out all the, pages and then cut the spine off to be able to recycle them.
Now I think they've come up with some way of, pulling the glue out.
Okay .
let's see.
How ten years ago,
what do you think was different ten years ago from now?
I would say as, far as social changes go, I think families were more together.
did more things together.
huh .
they ate dinner at the table together.
the parents usually took out than they do now to come with the children and just spend the day doing a family activity.
although I'm not a mother, still think that, a lot has changed since ten years ago.
what do you
think about that?
ten years from today seems rather short.
I do agree that, generally has sort of, let's see, rushed everything ahead.
I don't know,
it a lot of time out for family and things like that.
In other words, they just prioritize their lives differently.
I think that has a lot to do with economic situation.
What about as far as, social changes in the individual?
you think that the individual has as much time as they did, let's say, ten, twenty years ago?
It depends.
it's hard to say because I think people were busy ten twenty years ago too.
I just ,
old are you?
I'm twenty eight.
Twenty eight.
I'm twenty three.
there's maybe a five year gap between us.
think that things have been busy all along.
It's just
a matter where priorities are, placed.
And that, usually as far as families are concerned, there used to be just one person working and usually the other parent was home.
now, it's pretty much an economic necessity in most places for both parents to work.
Do you think it's an economic
do you think that all trying to keep up with a certain standard of living?
I think that's part of it too.
I do think,
do you think,
people really need two cars and
I don't.
a house in the suburbs
I don't think that.
there are a lot of people don't have that.
But, that really do need to work.
I think maybe those people that really do need to work, both parents, just to survive.
C And
then there, that other group that is
working to maintain a standard of living
that, they think surviving which is really more luxuries.
tend to think that it's less those people that have the two cars and everything than it is the group that is just trying to survive.
think it's,
which group are you saying is the one trying?
I'm saying that group that is just trying to survive from day to day, where both parents are working
is more of the majority people that have the higher standard of living.
if you look at economics across this country and statistics on who has the money and who the decreasing, middle class in this country
I think that that's, in my opinion, the case.
I have met people that just want to maintain standard of living and those really need the job.
sometimes often, find that maybe there's so many different things available to us. a microwave, a V C R, a answering machine
a dishwasher, a refrigerator and some of those items,
I guess we're sticking more to social changes
people want all of that
not all of those are necessities.
Right .
they're trying to,
it has become a necessity .
I say they,
probably the best things to do tie them with a rope and throw them in the water
((if they sink))
I see.
they're innocent
a good, a good southern solution.
of course, being facetious
You'd have to say that.
I don't know.
things they asked to talk about were judge should be the one that does the, sentencing.
seems to me that the way it's done now.
at least,
my understanding of the law which isn't very good.
it seems to me that the judge does it
think that's probably all right in that they, maybe know what norm is
for a particular thing.
I guess, also what the system will absorb .
Probably more tuned in to that.
Possibly though on, capital cases like maybe the death penalty
I'm kind of undecided on that whether the judge should have the sole,
he could have a personal prejudice.
judges are people like everybody else
That's right.
even though supposed to be impartial
I think that may be an exception as well.
I think that,
doesn't the jury decide on the death penalty rather the judge?
think that's, I think that's the way it is.
decide whether or not or whatever would death penalty.
Do they have a death penalty in California? .
fact, they're going to execute somebody at the end of this month.
there's a big uproar going on right now.
the, Governor, has been trying to decide whether he's going to commute it or not.
it's someone who had,
killed two teenage boys here in San Diego as a matter of fact.
something like that, I've got no problem with it.
I guess the way I think about it it shouldn't necessarily be thought of as revenge.
It's just like if you've got a dog that's running wild and biting people
put it to sleep,
Just get it out,
it's not able to fit in, .
Something inexpensive.
exactly .
I guess,
kind of the way I think about it also, is they just,
if somebody gets the death penalty, judged guilty,
they got the death penalty,
they should have one year and one appeal. Cover all their bases with one appeal
if not, let them sit up there on death row for, fifteen years.
I think this particular case has been like ten or fifteen years.
I guess there have been several cases where people have been executed by mistake
I'm sure .
you'd hate to be one of those.
The other thing they asked about was whether the verdict should be required to be unanimous.
Which, again, I think is the way it is now. That verdicts,
maybe not.
I don't know.
At least in capital cases I'd think they'd have to be
I believe it is
in capital.
I think in lesser cases it's ten out of twelve or five out of six, whatever .
How ever many is a jury.
that's the way it is.
I'm pretty sure you're correct on capital cases. ,
The paper here tonight had a thing about the Noriega trial.
And that there's one juror that different than the other eleven.
they've only deliberated four hours or,
they say they're hopelessly deadlocked.
no .
the judge told them ,
they weren't hopelessly deadlocked yet .
I'm telling you, go one way or the other.
probably an expensive trial.
Six months so far they said.
I'm not sure there's a number.
It's probably thirty, forty thousand dollars a day worth of all the free for all.
Maybe they could go nine hundred number and have people dial in and give their, vote.
Yeah .
been so long I've forgot who Noriega was,
That has been going on .
My, cousin is a F B I agent down in Miami.
she follows that stuff pretty closely.
That's interesting.
she's not involved in case.
she does,
have you ever served on a jury?
I haven't.
I never have.
My wife has
I got called
I, never, got selected for a jury ,
I sat for days
in a court room while they went through the selection process,
they had some guy that was, defending himself.
Bye .
about, the care of the elderly?
That's right,
that's right.
what do you think is important?
If you were,
I don't know old you are,
parents say or grandparents, whatever it is, who were ready,
you thought might benefit from a nursing home, what do you think you would look for?
my dad's almost ninety
he lives by himself
he's in good shape.
some friends of mine have, gone through this.
I think I'd look for a home where they got a lot of attention and, where they did some things to try to keep them, mentally alive.
And people, operating it.
you have any experience with this yourself?
wife's grandmother
is in a nursing home in, Minnesota
we go there, once a year.
her there cause we're in Boston
we're pretty far away.
When we visit Minnesota though we go to see her.
it seems,
environment there, I don't know too much about it
seems nice enough.
at least half of the residents I would say are mentally sound.
it's hard to tell how much of that rubs off on those who are struggling clarity, )).
From the lack of stimulation, you mean.
don , I don't know.
also, my wife and I, volunteer to go to a, nursing home that's just a mile from our house.
goes more often than I.
We used to go to visit some of the patients there.
a two year old son
take him with us.
there I would say it's the same thing.
a environment
again, it must be depressing for the people are, who are just essentially not able to take care of themselves in their own house ar , are, have retained all of their, mental skills and so on.
It's, must be depressing the halls see all these other people who really don't know where they are.
Do you think that in the case of the one that you've actually had some experience with, that the people who operate it seem to have, what you'd perceive of as genuine concern?
I think, yeah,
I think they're relatively concerned in as much as they can be.
think sometimes, I've noticed, things, just repetitively
things that are not reasonable,
at some level the,
I'm sure staff what's normal for this person
it looks to me like maybe their not catering to this person's needs is really because this person in a state where they don't really need what they think they need,
I was thinking also that a fair burn out factor
in just having to respond to people's needs where the needs are sometimes, depending on the person, not going to be what we would perceive of as rational need.
I'll tell you one thing though that saw that was really nice.
We saw a husband and wife,
we used to see a husband and wife in there, together
they were in the same room which not all husband and wives were
these two were.
when you walked into their room, they had brought all their furniture from their house
gives them a sense of identity.
you walked in there
it didn't look like, how, you walk into some rooms
completely generic.
There's nothing, maybe a picture or two that belongs to that person
that's it.
this room, on the other hand, they got rid of all of the sort of standard issue beds and dressers and this and that
they had all their stuff from their house
it looked like, it must have been,
it was nicer to walk in there and to talk to them
it must also give them a sense of, security and, and,
think part of what you're saying matches what I read.
I used to initially think that the only people who went into such residences were people who, were adequately deficient in their abilities,
physical or mental, that they couldn't take care of themselves.
I also know a couple of people whose parents have gone into such things because I think they provide, a lot of social activities.
of my friend's parents who went in because she had largely lost her abilities
she was in there for awhile when they were away on vacation.
(( )) temporary.
that's new to me.
was sort of on the grounds that they were considering whether she would live there
I feel like, the whole vocabulary of this is very loaded if you think of words put her in there.
so much,
I guess you're probably in the situation we're in.
We're kind of past having to provide child care.
kids are grown up.
We don't have any grandchildren yet.
How old are your children?
one's twenty six
the other is,
huh .
they're going to be getting there.
They're, they're getting there.
there's no
no, no prospects right away for anything to happen.
I see.
I have, five children.
I have a eighteen year old son.
The ((rest)) of my girls are twenty three, twenty six, twenty eight, and twenty nine.
I have three granddaughters right now.
one's in Iowa.
a teacher
what she does is she,
teaches at a preschool.
she kind of,
they let her bring little daughter in for free.
(( ))
she just works part time.
Then I have another daughter in, Bountiful, Utah
she has to work full time
it's just tearing her apart.
She has a private baby sitter.
the baby just screams.
the baby is seventeen months
she just screams.
even if she knows that they're fixing to get ready to go over there.
They're not even there yet
It's hard.
seven month old granddaughter
her mother stays home
live, they live with us. as Orange County
is really expensive.
They live with us
of course, we love it. Because we get to see this cute little baby all the time.
she just,
she used to work and child care
she says after working in there
here she was a provider
there's only so much one person can do.
She said it's so awful.
She said she'll never put her child in a preca , in a p , in a preschool.
I'm sure there must be some good ones around here somewhere.
very difficult
What did you do when your kids were growing up?
Were you,
or twelve years, I stayed home.
after that went to work.
a couple of times I just,
I had one job
that job ran out because it was kind of a government seeded type job.
later tried to get the baby to a baby sitter.
Supposed to be good, recommended person from the church
I knew her personally.
She had two kids of her own and everything.
I quit my job because I couldn't stand how she was taking care of my child.
first of all, her children were sick all the time.
when my son stayed over there, he got sick.
He got sick,
that kids had,
we didn't take her over there until about eleven o'clock.
take my son and her daughter over kindergarten.
s ,
that day, I was saying now sick.
he has the same thing that all my kids have.
That's what he got,
Goes, okay,
it's not like he's going to infect her kids.
then what happened I said, he just threw up
kindergarten starts at eleven thirty
she said she'll keep him home
he'll probably just sleep anyway.
you know, what
that woman to kindergarten.
She sent him to kindergarten.
As soon as he went there, the teacher took one look at him
he threw up again
((Guess so)),
what happened they gave her a call because they knew that she was my baby sitter.
Called her
they said, that he's sick.
she wasn't home.
kids were sick
she wasn't home,
daughter that was in kindergarten with him also did not go to school because she was sick.
keep him home with her?
she didn't do that.
it got to the point where supposed to get out of, kindergarten about two thirty.
I had to leave work.
five o'clock in the evening
I found out he was still there at school.
they were calling me
they said somebody's got to pick him up.
I kept thinking that because she only lives two blocks away from the school.
I was trying to get my husband to come and pick him up and all that kind of stuff.
he had a hundred and four fever.
They couldn't, give him anything because they're not allowed to at school and everything.
I was so furious.
quit that job
I stayed home for awhile longer.
Then I went and got job in real estate where I can kind of adjust my time a little bit better.
a little more flexibility.
You can come and go.
I haven't had any experience with child care .
our kids were small we had a couple of, women who, would often to the house.
who's your favorite team?
My favorite team is the Pittsburgh Steelers.
You bet.
I used to be a big Pittsburgh fan when I was little.
when ((John)) ((Stallworth)) played he was from my hometown in Alabama,
I kind of grabbed on to that team,
((That's pretty nice)).
way back when.
that's good.
used to watch them a lot when they were playing the big iron curtain,
That's right.
steel curtain.
How about your favorite team?
last year it was Buffalo
still try to keep up with Buffalo because impressed me as being so efficient
they never score.
They never blow out their opponents.
They just score just enough points,
that really impressed me.
then down here I li ,
(( )) is pretty close to New Orleans
I've been keeping up with the Saints a lot.
they are exciting, aren't they?
the Saints are starting to impress me this year, a lot.
just a fun team to watch.
they are really.
Did you see the game Sunday night
Sunday afternoon?
I didn't.
It was funny.
a fireworks display at halftime.
some paper or something in the Super Dome up in the roof caught on fire.
you're kidding .
they had to stop the game ((in lieu of)) the third quarter
my gos ,
and put out this fire.
Those big piece of something came out of the roof and landed on the field
there's this big fire on the field
they were dumping the ((Gatorade)) bucket and everything.
I can't believe that.
It was funn ,
you just really can't tell what's going to happen.
That's hilarious.
I know.
It's like about two weeks ago I was watching the Saints.
((Morton)) Anderson kicked a sixty yard field goal.
was beautiful, right down the middle.
He is tough,
he has
He is.
an incredible leg.
do you think going to be able to make it this year,
I s ,
past the first playoff game?
I sure hope so.
who they play.
Right now I've got it narrowed down to the top four teams.
Who's that?
It's pretty much going between Washington.
And, Buffalo, New Orleans, and Chicago because Chicago has only lost twice
one of those was to Buffalo.
they beat the Saints.
Their only time they lost.
What do you think about, Houston?
I saw Houston play this summer in Memphis.
from what I saw they were playing,
when I was at the game we sat right on the front row,
right behind the Houston Oilers,
from what I saw the game impressed me a lot.
my brother watched it on T V and said that Warren Moon was just having an off night,
if that was an off night I'd hate to see when he's on a good night.
he definitely, is one of the best I think.
their backfield is really impressive.
Haywood ((Jeffreys)) and Drew Hill
and ((Allen)) (( )),
they really impress me.
they squeaked out a game on Sunday.
That's right.
did they play?
They played Dallas.
that's right,
They won,
all because,
in overtime.
That's right.
I remember that now.
that was,
watched that game
that was,
Do you have a favorite between those two?
because I'm right here in Dallas kind of pull for Dallas.
Really? .
also Houston is, in Pittsburgh's division
that's true.
I'll almost always root against them.
(( )).
I hate to say it
I hate Dallas .
That's okay .
I was never really a big Dallas fan
until we moved here
they just kind of grew on me.
I imagine.
That's the way,
I've never been a big Saints fan until the last year or two
actually started doing something.
I've actually attention to them.
do you know anything about the expansion teams they're thinking about bringing in?
To tell you the truth I haven't paid too much attention to that.
what cities are they looking at?
right now I think this Memphis, trying to get the teams.
where I was when I saw,
Houston play.
Saint Louis is trying to get a team.
Baltimore is trying to get a team,
there's some other city.
I'm wanting to say Raleigh ((Durham))
I'm not sure.
I think you are right.
I think it is Raleigh.
Think so?
I think I remember hearing that.
I know they've got a (( )) football team
I think it might be them.
That would be fun.
I'd like to see some more teams get in.
I would, definitely.
I think they are supposed to put two in by either next year or the year after.
right now I think I think Baltimore have a really good shot at it.
I know Saint Louis is much bigger than Memphis
when I went up there they were saying that Memphis sold more tickets than Saint Louis did.
It's like the in Memphis holds about sixty two,
I think that, one, advantage of having, the unanimous verdict is that in a criminal case you want to make sure that you don't, convict someone who, really shouldn't be convicted.
I think that, a unanimous verdict, helps to ensure that.
I guess maybe one drawback of it is that if you have one juror who is very unreasonable in some way, that, you, would have a problem, that you wouldn't convict someone who maybe should be convicted.
Have you ever served on a jury before?
I have twice.
It was a pretty wild experience.
what sorts of cases were they?
They were just, small time cases where, trailers and banks were involved,
were they criminal or civil?
They were civil.
They weren't
they weren't any criminal.
was the verdict?
jury have trouble reaching a decision?
the jury, ten to one on the jury, because they only had to have eleven people
it was,
the one changed his vote at the end.
did it become?
it became unanimous, after they turned it in
he changed his mind after they turned it in
it then became unanimous.
since it was a civil case it really didn't matter,
You just needed a majority?
the other case?
That was also civil?
other case was just traffic,
it was seat belt law
didn't even hardly
didn't really even count.
go through,
a college student
I haven't been, a jury eligible age for very long
I did get one summons actually at one point,
I declined it which I'm able to do because I'm a student, because it was, a very bad time.
you learn a lot going to the juries like that though.
Yeah, really, I would like do at some point,
thing that think a problem is, think that the criminal jury system works pretty well now,
I wonder if maybe in some civil cases it doesn't work as well.
Especially sort of.
I wouldn't think that it does
my, from what I experienced in them,
turn out the way I planned it, the way that I would think that it would go.
you thought it turned out pretty well?
jury was unorganized
organized enough for me.
I'm not used to it not being organized,
I just assumed that it would have been.
it was just kind of a zoo
the jurors just sort of,
someone had to figure out what was going on?
That's about what it was.
That's interesting.
work out pretty well in the end?
did a couple of people sort of gradually, sort of assume, sort of a moderator role in the trial
picked one person,
he finally, moderated everything and made it turn out the way it should have.
out pretty well?
it ended up working all right.
The one thing I sometimes wonder about, in civil cases is, whether, especially sort of in, maybe liability, or medical malpractice, where there's, sort of a very technical decision to be made sometimes
it's not just a matter did this guy rip off this guy,
it's just a matter of interpreting a contract,
it's sort of a matter of, sometimes getting into very technical issues,
I wonder if the system works adequately educating the jurors about, whatever, issue is under discussion.
don't think that they educate them enough really know what's going on.
the case you were involved in, you said it was just sort of a bank matter of some kind.
bank was suing them because they went to get trailer
was, seemingly their property.
It was on his property.
the deal was that he had, borrowed money from the bank to buy it,
he hadn't made the payments.
they came to get it.
when they came to get it, it was on the landlord's property
he wouldn't let them take it off.
they were suing to get it back.
a double wide,
they'd already taken it apart.
they left it there
when they came back to get it a couple of days later it had rained and got all in it.
they were suing him for the money,
there's no way they could because was the moving company,
I get most of my news from newspapers really.
I read the daily newspaper, the HOUSTON CHRONICLE
sometimes I'll read the, WALL STREET or the NEW YORK TIMES.
I don't subscribe to either,
sometimes I get a hold of copies of it.
how about you?
Do you, mostly
get things from T V or (( )).
I actually get most of my news coverage off computer networks.
However, I do also watch television news, usually in the morning once a day
I read the front page of the WALL STREET JOURNAL
most every day.
that's interesting.
You said computer networks.
I am fairly knowledgeable of (( )) .
DOW JONES for example
That's interesting.
news wire
it's picked up and actually available, at my office,
it's, no fee, or subscription either to read at my leisure
it's sort of by category.
For example
I ,
so I can read a certain business or topics.
is it,
is it the A P news wire
is it something that is, a little bit different from that?
it's similar to that,
it's DOW JONES, which is, the WALL STREET JOURNALS news wire.
access in the past to, the A P news wire
I thought good way to get news.
I've never used the DOW JONES news wire
news magazines or anything like that for sort of a broader, more long term analytical sort of approach?
actually not.
I do, follow,
I don't know describe it
I'll say a religious newspaper talks about issues that are relevant to me in a more broad sense.
It's a weekly
Yeah .
like BUSINESS WEEK or NEWS WEEK or one of those kinds of things.
I'd like to say I'm overwhelmingly disappointed with the media in general except for the raw news wires .
In what way?
or sort of an orientation in terms of view point or the way the news is presented or whatever?
has to do with,
I personally think,
have a problem with their viewpoint
I personally think that, ther ,
you won't offend me.
go ahead and say .
that there's a strong bia , there's a strong bias in the media.
Like a liberal type of bias.
after all, writes.
People who are journalist who are trained to write
at least from academia
the other thing that I always notice is that whenever they write about something that I'm an expert in, I find their descriptions to be wrong
generally make mistake on anything technical at least .
That's right.
even if it's not technical. If it's, some social thing or whatever. It doesn't matter.
If I am an expert in it, they usually make mistakes which makes me I'm not expert in it.
They're telling me lies.
mean just like honest mistakes
do you think they are deliberate sorts of things?
I think both.
by deliberate mean of omission biased toward a particular view point
a particular liberal
view point that they have.
to give you an example, we will go out of the printing media.
I know of cases where, we have one television media where they will show clippings from one event and describe another event but, with attempt to give you the impression that what they're talking about is the same thing they are showing you.
Which is sort of like a deliberate bias.
That's disturbing.
rather disturbing.
he does that.
I haven't really noticed them doing that,
again I don't watch T V news that much now.
If I had access to C N N, I would watch T V news more.
I don't have access either. Although, I did at one time
it was,
I did during the Gulf War
it was addictive.
think that would be kind of, an abnormality?
I just wonde , I guess.
I would be curious to know what you thought as to how C N N T V news compared to the three networks.
whether you thought it was more of a biased or whatever
guess you wouldn't.
You probably,
if you just watched it during the Gulf War, that probably tell you much.
during that small sample, I would think that everyone was the same, except the three networks, (( )) radio television programming.
if at a particular time, you wanted to get the latest and greatest news
you could do that by, turning on C N N
Anyway, .
How about you.
What do you do with your budget?
What do I do,
at the moment it's under chaos.
right now I'm just,
don't really have a budget per se.
it's called living within your means .
which means at the moment, paying off the VISA bill and keeping everything else under control and hoping the car doesn't collapse .
That's true.
I don't really have a budget at the moment.
a rough feel for how much money I can afford to spend each month
I exceed that gets out of hand for one reason or another, like if I have car expenses
goes through the moon,
that's sort of a problem.
what do yo ,
so far we are in the clear credit wise
the other side of it is,
not much on that side of it to add to it.
We're trying to think of how to put away some savings and stuff like that
So you can afford to get a house?
we'd like to do that some day.
We have this dream.
we don't know how long it will be a dream.
kind of real, we're real happy that we don't have any debt,
real scared about incurring it in this, economy right now
we're stepping real careful and trying to see what's the best way to save we do get, on top of expenses every month.
what do you and your husband do?
We're missionaries actually.
Are you really?
it will be easier once we get overseas cause we have, support quota
it's cheaper to live overseas than it is to live here.
No kidding.
it doesn't get switched very easily once you come home.
I see.
Overseas, where would you be going?
How long would you be there?
About four years.
We're career
go over seas for four years
we come back for a year.
We go over four,
we come back for a year.
what Church?
we're with Wycliff Bible Translators.
know who they are.
have an office, Costa Mesa as I recall.
they could very well
was, there was a fairly large building was that belongs to them.
active in translation?
we will be.
I was four years doing language surveying which is the first step.
You're kind of like the scout that goes ahead of the team and assesses the need.
huh .
came home and got married
we will go as translators cause we want to raise a family
it is easier to raise a family as translators.
I always wanted to do translation,
as long as I was single and foot loose so to speak it's easier.
they really need surveyors cause free to travel anywhere.
You don't have kids hanging around you and stuff.
true enough.
what languages do you speak besides English, of course?
I have a smattering of about ten different ones,
I'm not bilingual in any of them because I kept switching from one area to the other,
since I did
huh .
complete a survey in one area, I'd switch to the other.
I know the greetings in about ten,
and how to do market stuff,
in five I guess, I can do better in it.
my French is pretty good
it's, (( )) French
I'm terrified to speak in,
In France.
in France.
they're real snobby about their language
(( )) French is street French
I just picked it up off the street
I didn't know what I was saying.
I never sat there and got a direct translation
and said something here when I came home and French to somebody
he paled and said, I'm not going to tell you what you said.
since then I have refrained from speaking any French .
In (( )) .
I don't know what I said to him
I didn't ask him either.
Must have been terrible.
was it Henry Macon said that language was like a man slowly bleeding to death.
they hemorrhaged him to death without new infusions that will eventually die
just amazes me that the French don't recognize that.
Free style English is just,
takes on,
some of my things,
like to have a short work week
we need, better health insurance and cau ,
we can start off there.
Let's just get started.
If you don't want to, talk about it now and then
be bored when we get to it .
I just press one then
Okay .
that a short work week is real nice.
I have a thirty seven hour work week.
How about you?
right now, just a student.
I only work part time,
I've work in the job force before
forty hours is just too long.
You just don't have any time to do anything.
It seems like, Saturday you off,
Sunday you're getting ready for Monday.
if we could have a thirty two hour work week, with that happen is that, for every four people we could give another job.
that way everybody would have a three day holiday,
that would make a bigger market.
We'd have, more recreation.
People would have time to do it.
There would be less of a stress level.
less crime.
build less prisons, less police force.
it all makes sense to me.
there may be more crime. if people have more leisure time.
It's not clear.
that's, that's a possibility.
of the problems they're facing now, a lot of people now, offer health insurance
too costly
is happening is that they're on a policy where they have X amount of users in it,
they get a specific rate.
what happens is that if people start chronic illness things like that,
what happened and where they really have to spend out a lot of money
for one particular,
it's called group,
then is that they cancel, because they just can't cancel an individual.
have to cancel just life insurance.
They have to cancel everything.
what they do is they cancel the insurance
then all the people don't have any insurance coverage.
I'm, I'm satisfied with my job.
an engineering student.
I work for my instructor
not a typical student.
in my thirties,
I have a lot of job experience
my instructor thrives on that because he can just tell me what he wants
he can give me access and tell me what to do and just turn me loose
the same token, it's enjoyable for me because I don't have to have, nobody breathing down my back
one of the things that really hate about jobs. like bosses want to yell at you and are down on your back and all this and that.
just really can't deal with that
Yeah .
jobs have you done?
I do in computer science
I've just been doing that for a few years now
has most of the benefits I want.
what I really like is, I like being,
they send me to conferences for instance, but probably not as much as I'd like
that's just nice a company being able to give you time to do that sort of thing and sort of,
they also,
a really important thing to me is when pay for continuing education.
get night courses that cover right now
that's really good
that's just great.
You have what you might call knowledge power
you work at a company whether you know it or not, is that you're categorized.
Some people can be let go and replaced like, say, a typist, somebody who does data entry or answers the telephone or receptionist.
if you're a person doing computer type things and knowledge, you know what the system you've revised and revamped the system, then vital to the company
you get more benefits
That's where I'm like,
I'm into computers too
that's one of the things that I've found in any of these jobs and anything I've done is that to have knowledge.
When you have the knowledge, not going to, be let go,
be one of the last ones to let go anyway.
what I,
what were you saying?
think we're started now.
do you want to go ahead and start?
I haven't really been up to date on a lot of music.
I've been in school
I haven't really gone out,
and bought any or listened to much radio except for classical
you like classical music?
I like classical music.
I like rock and roll.
I like country and western .
like all kinds .
different things about each one of them.
I like most of them except for country music.
you don't like country?
I think might like dancing to it
I don't like listening to it.
kind of country I like is kind of the older country music.
((Whi ,)).
kind like Kenny Rodgers and stuff like that.
a little bit to,
((it's such))
they're trying to make it too much of a crossover thing,
you know what I mean?
the old country music like?
Hank Williams.
Like the old Hank Williams.
Williams, Junior is real good stuff.
The kind that
this stuff,
makes you cry it sounds so sad .
you d ,
That's the kind you like you mean?
I do.
not all the time.
I guess like the blues a lot
I guess you could say it's similar as far as
I, I do too.
I also like jazz.
I guess I like
except heavy metal
most rap I don't like.
about like I am ((then)).
watch M T V anymore.
I used to love M T V.
barely watch anymore because, they have this heavy metal stuff on there
like that.
I liked, Aerosmith and
Led Zepplin and,
and, Van Halen.
groups like that.
when you get,
even like Guns and Roses, some of their stuff.
some of these groups now like Slaughter .
really haven't listened to that .
Some of them are just really rough.
you went to school then in,
I'm surprised you didn't go any or anything where they were playing a lot of music or stuff
I used to a long time ago
since I've started back into school now, I haven't really done that much.
I've been pretty busy.
I haven't.
used to go out and dance a lot
I don't do that anymore either .
I see.
Are you married at all?
No .
Okay .
I've just been real busy lots of other things.
how old are you?
Twenty eight.
you went to school for awhile and quit. Then went back.
went to school and got a degree
I worked for awhile.
back a year and a half ago.
Changed directions.
How old are you?
I'm, twenty eight .
I was born in sixty three .
I guess we're
okay .
All right.
the same age then.
I didn't really start getting into music until I went to college because, my parents didn't really have music in the house.
Put it that way.
rea ,
Were they religious?
I see.
I'm always behind.
not, I'm never really up to date on all that stuff.
I know what I like a sound. A certain kind of sound,
My parents were very musical.
My mother had
a piano
My father likes, country western music.
He's from, West Virginia.
that's what he grew up listening to.
he's always liked it
he's probably about fifty three years old now,
he grew up in the late fifties
when they had Elvis Presley music and stuff like that.
And that kind of rock and roll
he likes that.
my mom always liked that kind of stuff.
My mom likes Doris Day,
She always had old Doris Day records and stuff like that, though.
I grew up listening to that stuff.
kind of sheltered
I guess music.
do play the piano, .
like the, early seventies, late sixties rock.
Kind of stuff, the old stuff.
so do I.
Do you Halen or anything like that?
how about Brian Adams?
Bri ,
songs does he play?
LOVE CUTS LIKE A KNIFE.
SUMMER OF SIXTY NINE.
I think I've heard SUMMER OF SIXTY NINE.
He sings that.
from Canada.
very good at remembering the,
The titles and artists.
I can remember song.
Yeah .
do you watch music television, M T V at all? Or V H One?
I don't watch T V much at all.
do you get cable?
you have to get cable to get those stations anyhow.
I like to watch rock and roll videos and any kind of videos.
I like watching that kind of thing.
Do you someone recent? Like Enya?
Have you ever head of her.
She's not rock
I haven't heard her.
from Ireland.
the top ten, I guess, or whatever.
did (( )),
how serious is the,
subject of crime in your area?
needless to say, here in Washington, D C this is the war zone.
D C around here stands for drug capital or death capital.
really bad here.
for example, the, local high school, they've already found two students with sawed off shotguns
they're starting to, get these hand held metal detectors so they can inspect the kids every morning when they come to school, of all things.
luckily, it hasn't gotten that bad here.
San Jose actually has a pretty good record in terms of being relatively low on violent crime.
it's on the uprise, especially in a lot of the, outlying agricultural towns.
because you end up having a lot of gangs forming, largely around the Hispanic core.
it seems to be that, gang warfare follows very rapidly on the heels of poverty conditions.
That's how bind themselves together in groups, I guess
interestingly enough, I don't think we have here, lot of gangs, but, only a couple,
of, not a whole large group of them, but, just a few. Most of them centered around, drug territory.
they're protecting their economic interests, I guess.
Yeah .
nowadays the latest thing read about in the paper here that they're doing as far as, crimes involving stealing cars is that, instead of stealing, cars at night, breaking into them or whatever, they will pick out a car that they want and wait until you show up,
as you get out of the car, they just, step up and, take the keys off of you and drive the car away and leave you standing in front of your house.
that's efficient.
that's the, latest thing.
That way there's no damage to the car or anything.
They just wait for you to show up after they've picked out which one they want.
They're decided they're completely unworried about being identified or anything
of that sort.
Just wait for you to drive to your house,
you get out
they get in ,
off they go with your car.
I think they call it car jacking around here .
I'd heard that phrase.
that's kind of the latest thing,
, every year in the D C area it gets progressively worse as far as the number of homicides,
unfortunate that we feel sometimes even that we have to bring our kids up in this area because we're not from around here,
my wife's from Florida
we've just come from twenty years in the military which is an entirely different environment,
this is a whole new thing us have to put up with
it's, really scary sometimes.
there aren't that many,
places that are safe from that sort of thing nowadays.
it's pretty bad when they're using metal detectors in school
of course, the mayor, of D C is having a real problem, trying to,
what do you do reduce crime major city like D C where it's a way of life for everybody.
would hate to have to wrestle with that problem.
I don't know the solution is.
there's no way they can stop the drugs,
that's what's causing all the killing.
there's a couple of things that I've heard,
most of them are fairly, radical in terms
of what you'd have to do.
course reason these kids tend turn toward the drugs and everything else to be just, the end results poverty
parents that aren't doing any parenting and everything else
the parents aren't making a living at anything.
Right .
they see all their friends and neighbors,
they're accidental parents half the time anyway.
their friends are driving Mercedes
it's actually,
they grow up with that as their way of life
I think, to a large extent, they don't understand the concept that what they're doing is actually illegal because this is the way they were raised.
It's illegal,
it's not wrong because all their friends do it.
maybe it's the law that wrong in their eyes
they say, the law that's, got to be changed instead of their way of life,
I don't know,
it's ,
I'm glad it's not the kind of problem I have to come up with an answer to because it's not
I think that the drug thing would actually be relatively easy to solve in terms an actual solution to the problem.
social, the other social problems go away.
They've always been with us.
been a lot of,
I used to think that this whole argument was completely bogus,
then, the
more I thought about it, the more sense it made, is that, alcohol is as bad a drug as anything else.
prohibition didn't stop it and didn't do anything really
to slow,
looks like we're ready to go.
Capital punishment,
the problem I have with capital punishment is that, it's supposed to be a deterrent to crime,
I don't think that it really actually does that.
I don't think it deters anybody, because most of the time crimes committed thought to the consequences
they don't maybe I shouldn't do this, because, I might get the gas chamber or something like that.
They worry about it afterwards
they try and get out of it.
how about you ?
I think that in some cases, it is warranted.
I do, too,
I don't,
I think in some cases it doesn't matter if it's a deterrent or not.
you still have to do it.
I'm thinking of an extreme case like a serial murderer
favor of capital punishment, then.
for some things.
I think for serial murder
it is warranted because if a person who would do something like that in cold
Needs to be punished or, eliminated from society.
you can't guarantee that they wouldn't escape
from prison
And then do it all over again.
and do it again.
I don't think rehabilitation is effective.
Have to agree with you,
I'm kind of favor of capital punishment also.
I just don't think that it acts much as a deterrent to these people because, you still see them committing the same crimes,
I tend to agree with you that, we should have it .
don't know that it's always effective ,
I guess kind of stuck with it.
a difficult, problem, isn't it, to determine how you're going to punish somebody for a particular crime,
then, I think some murderers don't really warrant capital punishment.
like, for example, you hear about cases where women have killed their husbands
who abused them
I don't think,
that would really warrant capital punishment.
Do you think they should be punished at all, or, go to prison,
they're not really a danger to society.
It was almost really self defense, isn't it, in a case like that.
, it is to a certain extent
I think,
I don't know because,
I know they them in jail sometimes, I guess.
I think in s ,
just would depend upon the circumstances
the extent of the abuse
if another alternative was
I wonder what you think about this
unfortunately, don't get to do it,
it used to be a long time ago, I guess in Biblical times when they had punishment , if somebody did something, for example, to your family, then you had the right to administer the punishment.
if somebody killed somebody in your family , then execute that person.
I know that, if somebody had done something to my family, I would feel that I had the right get revenge on them
don't think that's done much anywhere .
That's kind of drastic punishment.
I think that would be kind of drastic punishment.
Might make you feel better
one thing, I think that if there is a chance for rehabilitation
then that chance be investigated.
like I said, someone just pathologically
going to murder people no matter what
then I think they should be eliminated from
because they're a danger to everybody else.
that's interesting.
I have to,
agree with that.
There's a lot of folks, probably, that are in prison aren't really a danger to society,
a lot of people that are a danger
to society that aren't in prison.
probably more of them then the other way around .
not sure
in Washington, D C or at least very close to it.
I'm not sure what kind of, capital punishment we have here.
I know in North Carolina, we do have capital punishment.
South Carolina.
we, in our family, have been pretty remiss in trying to, keep track of, daily finances.
way back, what, twelve years ago or something when I got my first computer, I did what everybody else does, which is to put the whole family budget on the machine and put checks, and, checkbooks and all this kind of thing
we kept that going for about a month
it became so onerous that we gave up on it .
That sounds about right .
the only thing now is, I keep little spread sheet of, what I call the net worth calculation which is just present value of various kinds of investments and so worth.
I only update that, I don't know, maybe once every quarter or so. Every three months. Just, basically when the statements come in.
Just to see whether or not we're ahead, falling behind or staying even or what.
that's really about, the extent the kind of, financial score keeping that we're doing.
it's kind of difficult for me. Because right now, like most teachers, I'm laid off
Oh dear, that's terrible.
I spend most,
I substitute a lot.
on a nonfixed income because I don't know how many days I'm going to be called in and whether I am or not, to try to keep track of finances.
I know how much I have to bring in a month .
that's about it.
That's about as far as we go.
anything extra is, more or less split up between all of us.
And just thrown in the kitty, more or less, for a rainy day .
I see.
Are you living with people that you're sharing expenses?
I'm a single mother.
I have three children.
I see,
right now, the state at this point because there's no other way to do it.
my ex husband just sort of took off and doesn't pay child support .
Oh dear.
right now I know what I'm getting from the state
I have to balance, more or less, what I get from the state with my bills and, try to work as many days as possible.
Any time they call me in.
I still have to figure out.
If I work too many days, then I lose all my state aid
if I don't work enough days then I don't get enough to meet the bills
it's like a juggling act every single month.
this week I've been just holding my breath and hoping they'll call me in
they probably won't because next week the kids have school vacation.
I see.
the four days before, they only have a four day week
they usually don't need subs because everybody's pretty good about coming in .
I see.
They don't like to be absent before a vacation.
trying some extra money.
And, getting pledge sheets for the Boy Scouts.
My kids are in Boy Scouts
trying to get pledge sheets for the Boy Scouts
every penny I bring in is ten percent to me.
it's sort of helps defray the costs a little bit.
we do a lot of robbing Peter to pay Paul.
I guess we're in the situation that a lot of are in.
you're the first,
my next door neighbor just lost his job.
my Lord.
his company
it was a subsidiary outfit called U S Shoe or something.
it was a computer subsidiary.
I don't know what a shoe company's doing running a computer company.
they just folded it up and, told him to,
they took the top management and gave them jobs
corporate, at the corporate front office
everybody else was sent packing.
Oh .
hang on one second
I've got
(( )) somebody was knocking on my door here.
it sounds like, in a certain sense, at least at the present,
it terrible to say,
at the present stage, you probably are even more in the market for budgetary thing most people probably be.
In terms of score of input and output.
a computer at home
we do.
we try
I keep track of every penny.
And, more or less, enter it in.
Every single day I'm at the computer.
I see.
it's like, what do we have left,
what do we have to pay, what
have we paid this month. What hasn't come in yet, .
use spread sheet
this topic is, is Russia a threat to our security?
. I think they are more of a threat to their own people at this day and time.
, how do you feel about it?
they do have, a major internal problem .
Everybody wants to defect,
I can understand why.
I think their biggest problem is just, obtaining food to live,
when you have the basic needs,
being unmet , I don't think you think globally as far as, being a threat to other people in the world.
as soon as they get own home country taken care of, then they'll consider,
what they can do with the rest of the world.
I believe Communism is very much waning .
It's, pretty much on the way out of the door, insofar as the strong hold that they used to have,
the Russian people are all realizing that the Communist system does not work to their satisfaction or their way of surviving in this world,
their rebellions right now is the result of that .
If they can get the army,
or the military to sway to their side, I think that, it will be on the way out eventually.
It's just a matter of time, because,
in the Baltic States they have already massacred so many people who protested,
that hasn't set too well with their diplomacy outcome of their affairs .
What's your synopsis? .
realize that, the Bush Administration isn't too happy how they're handling their internal, strife, as far as diplomacy is concerned .
I think it's been positive direction for the Soviets as far as Yeltsin is concerned.
he was, allowed to,
Congress gave him more power as far as his republic in Russia is concerned, which gives him more power overall, which I think is a good sign that there will be some,
politically speaking, he's going to have more power,
, I think it's a step in the right direction.
I think Gorbachev realizes that he's got major power figure, competing against him,
I think it's going to be pretty close to his demise if he doesn't follow suit with Yeltsin as far as, realizing,
he does realize it, with the fact that prices on their and goods.
I think that it went up a thousand percent on most,
they had to, go in the direction of a market driven economy,
they had to bite the bullet for that.
that's a good move , Gorbachev's part in doing that.
huh .
Gorbachev has still not fully convinced everyone that,
he's moving towards a two to three party system of government nor eliminating or diminishing the Communist power,
I guess that's where Yeltsin steps in, so far as his politics of government goes,
I don't know how convinced the people are of him yet, myself.
that's all they got right now.
That's their ray of hope.
they'll go with ,
whoever comes through for them.
it's just that,
the weird thing that Gorbachev is the one that opened the floodgates, as far as with glasnost and and stuff,
I think he's got between the Old Guard the new, glasnost.
I think it's kind of escalated to a point where it's out of control.
I think he had to pull in the reins the only way he knew how, in order to keep the both sides.
I think that's he's stuck.
You know what I'm saying?
I understand.
situation that he finds himself in,
he's a tough guy,
he's been through it .
I have no doubt that he'll,
think overall he's been , good figure for the Soviet Union.
I think his intentions and his ideals well intentioned.
in the long term,
I just think that because of the basic needs that the people don't have,
I think that, makes the problem most severe, and makes him worse that ideals are,
I agree.
What's bad for the Soviet system is that , they have the resources to grow and produce their food,
somehow it just does not get out to the market the way it should.
a lot of, , bureaucracy one thing, and then all the corruption.
I think there's large amount of corruption on have and the have nots.
Yeah .
That's probably more true than,
a lot of people realize.
I know you're going to have that with every society.
At least we're more blatant about it,
it's very secret,
it's been going on for years.
you can't change things overnight.
if it gets to a point where people can't , survive, there's revolution.
that's ,
It seems to be headed in that direction too.
Yeah ,
big time ,
major ,
what happens when, the cork blows
you can't handle it anymore.
that's the way the world, revolves that way .
their knowledge , with, better communication processes in this world now that's reached them is more educated to the, ways of the western world,
I think that was a big stepping stone for them to initiate all their righteous ways of changing things, too.
I really question, though, how much technology the average Soviet is exposed to.
probably not enough,
I'm sure I lot of it's filtered down enough to the common folks that they have gotten wind , of what they're missing out on.
I think they're starting to realize,
just don't think they have the resources, if you were to compare, the Americans to the Soviets as far as home computers are concerned or and cellular phones, and state of the art equipment that we are so used to.
I don't think they even realize what's out there, and to what extent.
I'm sure a lot of them are missing those household items .
the major conveniences of life .
what we consider just, , normal everyday things to them is real luxury.
Yeah .
Which is unfortunate for them,
of course, most of us, we don't really appreciate what we've got because we've been so used to it.
This is true.
This is very true.
nature though to take things for granted
it kind of,
when you've lost something don't have what other people have that's when you tend to realize, what's out there and you have and what you don't have.
I agree .
the original question, do we think their
yes and no.
I can go with that answer too .
The only yes I could go to is if a renegade crew decides to launch an attack or an accidental launching or something to that effect a nuclear exchange,
I don't even see that occurring.
because their internal strifes are more important right now than concentrating on any kind of outside affairs that they used to be ((adapted)) to I guess.
I don't really feel that the Soviets really want to blow up the world.
we painted them back in the fifties and sixties nonfeeling machine type people,
they're people just like us.
they get up everyday,
they put their pants on the same way,
they have to eat and everything else,
I just don't feel that ...
why don't you start cause it said I was suppose to ask you what do you,
Do you have any elderly relatives currently in an, nursing home now?
I do.
Do you?
I have a grandmother.
She's a hundred and two.
my gosh.
She'll be a hundred and three in August.
we decide not to put her in a nursing home.
She lives with my mother and my father who also live here in town
my sister takes care of her.
is a hundred and two, she still has all of her faculties.
She still has her snap.
She takes care of her own business.
This is the first year that she has gotten weak and actually has to have a little walker,
with somebody that needs around the clock care,
I have seen my family age.
I have seen them in the,
she's been there ten years now.
I have seen them age twenty
in the time with the expense and everything,
it is worth it had a good nursing home
they needed some quality care,
I would
put someone in a nursing home.
My mother in law finally.
They had to make a family decision.
There's seven children in my husband's family
fortunately four of them live in the same home town
she has Alzheimer's.
It was getting where she was getting
letting strangers in and things like this,
they were very fortunate.
It's a small town
she happens to room with one of the doctor's mother's
C and
that's good.
then she's got a lot of family there and that go and see her all of the time
she really doesn't.
Nobody thought she would adjust,
she has adjusted beautifully.
that is great.
then I am also facing my father who is very sick
my mother and father reside in Colorado.
She's been taking care of him.
I don't know how much longer this can last
at that point because he requires round the clock.
He can't do anything without her.
He doesn't know when to take his medicine
it's really sad
I have thought if something would happen to my mother for,
my brother's are not interested in helping me
I would have to move him down here.
That way,
I want to see the nursing home. If I have to put him into one.
where I can go see it.
be very uncomfortable with him being in Colorado.
why yeah.
I am sure you have got some really good nursing homes around Dallas.
some of them are limited care too where people can do,
they have apartment styles,
but that wouldn't work for him.
I think he is beyond that.
Where if you need help you can get it,
basically people kind of have a small apartment
doctor's are available if they need them.
know a lady that lives in a place similar
to that in Austin.
the only problem with these are that they are very expensive.
Of course, I guess all nursing homes there is
the bad thing about it, before you can get any kind of government help, to be a pauper.
takes every penny.
They want you to spend every dime you have
before the government will pay for care.
that's the sad part about it.
I think a lot of people who do it now.
In Colorado it's interesting.
I talked to my mother.
They allow you sixty five thousand dollars and your car and your home.
my mother could make it on that.
What she probably would do is disburse the money to me
I would send it back to her
that's what would happen.
I think that's what most people do.
You just have to give away.
It's unfortunate.
work at a brokerage firm
I have seen so many people that just have to gift, their belongings
as much as they can each year in anticipation of having to move to a nursing home.
It's frightening.
I guess, I don't know how old you are.
I'm forty six.
we're the generation moving into this
I don't know how our kids are going to take care of us.
I can't imagine.
I'm twenty nine.
everybody in my family has always had,
we don't have any children.
Everybody that has, has them later in life.
mother and my father are in their late sixties.
they're not
that far away.
I also see on my generation a squeeze between looking to having to help my parents and still having to help my son because things are so rough out there job wise
he's still living at home
I don't know how he is ever going to get on his own the way things are.
I know.
it's kind of,
you feel squeezed in the middle of having both generations,
will have to change as more and more of us get older.
luckily, if we could be like your grandmother, would love to live to a hundred and two if I were okay.
you see these people in their seventies
Most people aren't.
most aren't.
That's the problem.
that's the bad thing.
I would hate to have lived so long.
She lived by herself.
My grandfather passed away before I was born so she lived by herself up until she was ninety, ninety one.
That's incredible.
And just did everything,
Hello Ann.
Hello Chuck.
the other day, I attended a conference here at Utah State University on recycling
I was kind of interested to hear cause they had some people from the E P A and lots of different places
they had basically decided that there is going to be a real problem here within a few years on solid waste.
I didn't think that was a new revelation.
it's not too new.
is the E P A recommending now?
they really didn't propose any solutions.
pretty negative about the things that the government was doing even though he was from the E P A
he had a lot of, facts give and, things like how many solid waste plants were being shut down
one of the most interesting things that he was talking about was recycling news print.
He was talking about, the City of New York and how they went and collected all this news print
they could sell it for a while.
They were able to sell it for some amount per ton
now at this stage of the game where they have gotten into recycling, they've collected so much news print that they have to pay to have it hauled away.
common problem though.
in Dallas as well as New York
I try to recycle all of the newspapers that come to my house
after a while I just quit taking the newspaper because I couldn't recycle it anymore which isn't good for business on the other end either, I suppose.
We're doing some here Cash Valley, the community here.
actually got a kind of a nice set up.
We've got a couple of plants here that actually take, recycled paper and shred it and spray it with chemical treatment so that it's not a fire hazard
and make it into insulation
they can actually use as much recycled paper as the community can get to them. Because they are actually buying it and shipping it in from outside.
that's good.
one of the real keys, it sounds like, to getting recycling for, paper or something like that to go is to get some sort of business to actually want it once you have collected it.
There has to be, a reuse for it.
that's why they recycle.
The one I think is the most interesting is with the recycled bottles and all that, the industry seems to be doing with the recycled polymers. everything from, waste baskets to carpet to slide rugs under the carpet
I think they are even putting it in the roadways these days
they're making clothes now that are recycled.
Like the recycled plastic coke bottles milk cartons and things like that.
there was a paper presented at this conference from a guy from Alabama
he was kind of hired to do a study by two departments for the government.
One was environmental protection
the other one was, I can't remember what,
the basic idea, it was presented to him was how can we maximize the amount of energy that we can get back from recycling and minimize the volume of stuff that we are putting into our landfill
the solution that he came up with for plastics, it was really quite amazing,
he says, the best thing to do with plastics is to burn them.
He came to the conclusion, plastics is actually one of the biggest problems in landfills cause low weight, but it's high volume so it takes up a lot of space
value in actually doing a lot of the recycling,
there is a lot of energy in it if you can burn it and use it, produce electricity.
his solution was to burn plastic. Collect it and burn it.
it's carbon
that makes sense,
a carbon fuel of some sort,
it's more than even paper or something like that.
There is more energy in it per pound or whatever.
what about emissions?
deal with that.
He just said burn it.
Okay .
He didn't talk about cleaning it up or anything like that.
it's not very practical (( )).
it's interesting.
I bet that was a good day, at the conference then.
real interesting.
Did it change anything for you?
not too much.
I got a bit.
my feeling is that, it's really being used today,
it, it really isn't doing any real good purpose for anything because it's not cost effective because of the amount of time the people end up waiting on appeal.
I think I've seen some statistics that say that, it's more expensive to kill somebody than to keep them in prison for life.
because you've got the prison expenses, plus all the legal expenses.
it certainly doesn't seem to be a deterrent. for one thing because it's used so infrequently and for another thing because I honestly don't think the people that are committing the that would be eligible, really care.
committing them mostly is, either crimes of passion or at the moment
they think they're not going to get caught
it's kind of like the AIDS phenomenon,
I'm invulnerable,
I don't need to care about this.
never going to get caught.
you also have to think whether it's worthwhile on the individual basis, for example, someone like, Jeffrey Dahlmer,
do you want,
by putting him in prison for life, there is still a possibility that he will get out again.
way or another.
if you kill him, there is not that possibility.
the other side to that is, if you put him in prison for life, there's a chance that he might do things in prison, and somehow redeem himself.
I don't think he could ever redeem himself,
in some cases, yes.
so that,
question is, the other with capital punishment you run into is, what are you going to do about people who are later to have been found innocent,
There are cases where, twenty, thirty years after the fact of getting evidence, especially as new technology comes along that might prove their innocence, then, oops,
I'm sorry,
guess we killed the wrong guy.
once you've made a decision that way, it's a little difficult to go back on it.
can apologize nicely,
I think, price,
better that a thousand people go free, than one person be unjustly imprisoned. I think really philosophy of the way our legal system works.
it's a ,
the benefit of the doubt to the last iota is, based on the, person who is accused.
I think that,
the way it's being used now, it's like you listen to Bush
where are we going to impose d ,
it's like for drug dealers is the new big thing in,
Tsongas is also saying, crime to be a major drug dealer.
again, I don't thing these people care. *
They risk their lives every day.
they seem that the profit margin's so high that,
risk is almost not there.
especially, now, I live Massachusetts,
we're going to get capital punishment here probably after the second coming or something.
you look at crime rates and things like that and you compare them Texas or someplace that does, it's impossible to make a case that affecting it in any way.
I think it's mainly, people, they get the vengeance of it.
it's also,
I used to live in Georgia
big thing down there was, all right, we have capital punishment,
if you look at who gets accused and who are the ones who actually get executed, it's very racially related
and ethnically related,
it's blacks.
Also a lot of young people.
a sixty two year old guy is less likely to be put on death row from what I've seen.
think when you listen to the victims' families and things, they're always talking about, feeling justified or feeling, like they've gotten something out of it,
my thought has been, once the guy has been imprisoned, if he goes to jail forever or whatever, if he gets killed, it shouldn't make any difference to victim's family.
The only thing that should really,
obviously, if someone of mine who has close died, I'd probably feel differently,
the important thing is that they be caught and not be a danger to society.
also by keeping them in prison, you do have the possibility, of making restitution.
will work your prison job
any money you earn will go to the victim's family.
other thing is that, I was reading through a book on, research
there, more and more things like schizophrenia
why, does it just turn out to be genetic or biochemical in origin.
if someday we can go to Jeff Dahlmer and say, the problem is got an endorphin imbalance
if you take this regularly, you'll be a sane and productive member of society
you really get back to the question of, is someone responsible for their actions.
think on some of it, you have to say someone's responsible for his actions.
I never like the,
Society made me do it.
the defense,
I never liked the, insanity defense.
I did forget to ask you.
What is your name by the way?
I'm Ann.
you're Ann.
interesting procedural things I think would change if we're going to be talking about the subject which in some I guess criminal courts the ,
Criminal courts?
of which was, that's been going on because of the Rodney King trial here in town
the exclusion of jurors because of or in spite of their race.
the, the people that (( ))
jury that's trying, the officers in that case,
an all white panel.
there's been a lot made in the local papers of that,
I see.
I can't,
I'm a little surprised they didn't get a change of venue on that one.
They have.
They have.
They moved it up to the county north of here.
it's in Ventura
still quite a bit of publicity obviously,
debatable whether you could get a fair trial almost anywhere because
that videotape was just horrible.
It was everywhere.
think it would be very difficult to that would seen it known of what was going on.
I agree with you
I can't imagine that they would do an all white jury without having some sort discrimination appeal on not having a jury of his peers and all of that kind of stuff.
kind of torn on this issue.
It's like they're saying on the one hand getting a jury of his peers which is in some ways I think true.
on the other hand, also saying that white jurors convict.
they're not going to do their job. Which is
of being on a jury is to convict or, let go based on whether,
or not the person, whether or not the evidence says,
Based on fact.
that there's enough ,
How interesting.
what's the prevailing thought within the community?
you know, what the news media is going to make of it,
what about the community?
I guess it depends on who you talk to.
a whole lot of black people on it
rather imagine some snickering about it. And a lot of the usually fatalistic, here we go again folks,
kind of stuff.
my goodness.
That can't be good for Los Angeles either.
on one hand on the one hand you almost hope that they convict them because that very strong piece of physical evidence showing,
these people beating the heck out of this guy.
Unfortunately that kind of thing is not limited to a big city like Los Angeles.
You're going to have it just about anywhere.
There. *
Yeah. ,
What about the judge who's hearing the case?
Is he going to be impartial?
Is he going to,
be adjudicator?
I don't know.
again there's , something else along those lines.
There was a girl out here named ((Latausha Harlins)).
I don't know if it's got as much notoriety
it's rather almost as infamous here with, the Rodney King problem.
a girl walked into a Korean owned store
had a dispute, black girl.
had some kind of a dispute over some orange juice owner of the store.
The owner of the store popped her.
of course, they,
the criminal case went up
the judge gave the woman who suspended sentence.
it was
my goodness.
it was just,
she gave her no time in jail, all of these things
we have people wondering around petitions trying to get the judge,
To get that judge recalled I would think.
That's almost when you kind of wish that there where standardized sentences.
life easier.
It would.
what you were facing.
it's a matter deciding,
before a couple of years ago, I had very narrow view nursing homes
it was, more like a funeral home.
I always joked around about it being a funeral home and not really a nursing home.
then I had to do some volunteer work here in Tyler, Texas
I went to one
it just had a very good activities director.
Everyone was cheerful
now I don't have such a bad view of nursing homes anymore.
certainly wouldn't want to send my parent unless it was an absolute last
I have a sister that is in nursing school
she's real interested in geriatrics.
that sounds good.
real interested in, what Ann Richards has been doing.
is really cracking down on, the nursing homes
anything about a Texas governor .
I've heard the name
that's about all it goes.
Ann Richards is our governor in Texas
she's really cracking down on restrictions and what goes on in nursing homes.
my sister's real interested in that getting into that side of nursing.
That's one problem with nursing home environment.
elderly, even out of the nursing home, are very open to abuse.
they don't always have their full wits about them.
They're not completely up on what should be going on or what's not going on.
it can be pretty sad.
I've grandmother who had a stroke.
she was in a nursing home for four or five years before she died.
it's the type of thing that she was living down in Florida.
My was up in Maryland
the other part of her family was up in, New York state.
it was very difficult for either them or my grandfather to take care of her since she not do very much for herself after the stroke.
the nursing home was the, best facility to put her in.
besides moving her up which is not a practical solution since both my parents work
both my, aunts and uncle work.
Which means it's, very difficult for some ,
you essentially need to have someone taking care of the person full time.
there's also a lot of medical problems that can't always be completely handled in the home.
Which makes it,
it's a necessary evil I think.
It sure is.
some of the really nice ones that really take care of their people are so expensive. Because
cause they can afford to hire the people that are really going to care for the older.
even there you have to watch out for,
you get one person who's a little bit dishonest working in there
the elderly sometimes have a lot of jewelry
and other stuff that just very easily tends to disappear in the nursing homes.
My grandfather passed away several years ago.
I was much younger.
he was in the nursing home the last several years of his life
someone visited him every day.
My grandmother did.
if she couldn't, someone visited him every day.
It was in a very small town nursing home.
people didn't get paid much there at all.
They didn't care about what went on.
They would patient get a lot of bed sores.
people living in the nursing home would have all kinds of needs that wouldn't get met because they were just old people.
the nurses and doctors really didn't put loving care for them.
Either that or they're just so understaffed that they can't afford
to put in the, care that they need.
Cause it's,
an elderly person can,
it's like a newborn baby.
You need
to have twenty four hour care
answering all the needs cause they can't do much for themselves at certain points.
nurses get so worn down.
there's a
the elderly are very, complaining because they remember the way that things used to be.
And remember being able to do things for themselves which, they no longer can.
they feel
it, very, very hard for them to accept that.
they feel pretty helpless.
We just, moved my grandfather into, not a nursing home a transitional type facility.
Is it, like a retirement center?
More of a retirement home.
He's got his own efficiency apartment.
they provide one meal a day.
the rest of the housekeeping and other meals a day are up to him.
they do have, group activities going on.
How's he handling that?
he'd much rather be living alone in his apartment down in Florida.
to move into that facility we moved him from Florida up to Maryland
a bit of a shock to the system, weather wise, if nothing else.
There wasn't anything like that, that you could do in Florida?
there was stuff like that in Florida
what are your benefits like at your job,
how do you feel about them?
pretty good, actually.
I work for Hewlett Packard
they have, a pretty good, benefits package.
In fact, kind of known, for having good benefits.
The pay isn't fabulous,
I saw a survey recently
that's good.
for my career, my experience and all that stuff
which kind of surprised me.
What kind of a degree have you got?
I've got a Bachelor's in electrical engineering
I'm not, a hugely advanced degree or any ((of that stuff)).
benefits are pretty good.
We've got stock purchase program and a,
pretty generous, although you have to hold the stock for two years
before you get the company contribution which is, kind of pain,
there's a four O one K plan
for, sheltering some taxable income.
How long have you been with them?
I've been with them for seven years.
That's good.
is four years or five years, you're
completely vested in the retirement plan and everything,
it's not t ,
several medical plans to choose from, that cover pretty much everything.
I don't get sick that often,
I don't pay much of it,
I pay five dollars every time I visit hospital
for a checkup or whatever.
they don't cover eyes though,
have contact lenses,
that's kind of a pain.
for all
I can live,
practical purpose, you are almost a hundred percent covered.
So that you've got things to gripe about.
that sounds like you must feel really good about it.
the dental plan is ((fabulous)).
The dental plan, I pay absolutely nothing because,
guess they would charge a little bit if there was some orthodontia or something for one of my dependents or something like that
that's not the case,
I guess nothing.
It's fabulous.
what about you?
I, work in Washington at the Naval Research Laboratory.
I also have a part time job at a law firm
I get no benefits from them, ((at)) the part time work although, they pay better per hour
than sort of, quote, real job does.
benefits, through the government are, really,
got my degree
I'm, scientist
before I got my degree, I had, done paralegal work
for law firms here in Washington
at that time, I was in gravy city.
the law firms in this town are not,
for a long time were just rolling in the dough in the
early eighties
benefits were just amazing
we had everything paid for,
with the government, it's not, quite that nice a deal.
it's okay.
What we have to do is, we have to pay, about twenty percent of costs
it's deducted from our check each month and that sort of thing,
the plans that are available to us, range from kind of mediocre to really sweet
think I'm actually involved in a relatively good at this point.
it could be better,
that's for sure,
are other things that you get when you work for the government in terms of, more relaxed atmosphere.
It's really nice able to work in, a research atmosphere, where I don't have to, worry about, academics or anything like that,
really kind of happy about that end things.
one of the things with my company is that they've, got a reputation for a lot of job security
there's a lot of different things that they do, lot of different divisions that they do,
I, myself have moved around quite a bit within the company
I haven't had to move my residence to do that.
I still live in San Jose
that's fabulous.
I have a cousin whose husband works for Hewlett Packard
up in the Massachusetts area.
lives in Andover
the work that he,
he's, specifically an engineer does work with, the Hewlett Packard machines that do, sonographic imagining
I've been over to see his complex over there
it's amazing.
all ecologically designed
he seems really, really happy with set up.
In fact, I know a guy who works at Andover with out here
he moved his family back east a few years ago take that position.
Kind of interesting.
Steve, with the election year and whatnot coming up, do you think we ought to cut taxes, raise them,
what do you think?
a really hard question.
I do know that, politicians always talking out of both sides of their mouths.
let's example,
our friend, the President, right now, says no new taxes,
we should and especially, if anything, be cutting taxes now because of the recession
at the same time, the budget he sent to Congress has tax and fee increases,
I know the politicians, straightforward.
terms of economics I'm not,
it's to call.
It really is.
I never really thought question really had to do whether or not we're paying too much or too little.
always that real question are we getting a reasonable return investment.
For instance, like Social Security tax or Soc ,
we're paying money
supposedly this money is going into some kind of fund so that when it comes our turn to retire, the money will be there for us.
see that money taken out of my paycheck week, I, other week, really think that money's history
far as return investment,
we're not even going to get the exact same number of dollars back.
someone was telling me that office staffed people there in D C that are researching to find a cure for polio,
I may be wrong,
I believe that the cure for polio is already founded,
supposedly once you have an office in D C, staff it with people, it's really tough to close it down
they just haven't yet.
I'm not exactly sure, about polio in particular.
I know we have a polio vaccine come will prevent somebody from getting polio
I'm not sure if we know what to do in terms of curing some who has already gotten polio.
that might be the difference.
I don't know.
the other thing that, I remember seeing on T V lately to do with,
it's like seventy five percent of the historical sites in America are in the home districts of very powerful people politically
for some reason, historical sites with, full federal money and everything seem to appear almost as political favors very strong politicians.
it's funny because, it was one of the things that Bush is trying really hard to get ahold of is the line item veto where, Congress is able to attach all kinds of, funny amendments for individual, districts
main budget proposals
the poor President to, either accept or reject the whole thing.
it sounds like think we'd be able to save some money by,
passing the line item veto.
think the line item veto is not necessarily a bad thing, assuming that the President, uses it to get rid of, this kind of waste.
On the other hand, assumes that you have lots of confidence in your President not to veto important things.
and just to get rid of the unimportant things.
whenever there's that kind of subjective judgment, there's always going to be a dispute
as to, between waste necessity is.
sure that will help solve our problems,
there definitely a problem with,
I forgot,
there's a political term for this stuff, pork barrel or something.
Pork barrel politics.
Pork barrel politics.
there has to be some way to do it.
I know state governors usually have line item vetos
I lived in Massachusetts for a while
when Dukakis vetoed certain things, there was a big uproar and wasn't necessarily so popular.
Massachusetts in that great shape financially.
D ,
at least at the end.
I don't know,
they were very good at first,
they were in very good financials at first
that's part of the reason he became a nominee is because things went so well.
of course, the bottom fell out.
it's tough.
two ways you can kind of go to get out of tough financial situations.
I guess you can raise taxes and then create job programs and whatnot
you can hope that if people keep their money that they'll spend more and create jobs whatnot.
And spare the economy.
a hard balance. definitely is.
Even not for government, even just, for a small business.
I know some,
I'm not sure how it is in Georgia,
Pittsburgh really is not very high at the moment.
true Atlanta?
Atlanta is kind of high.
lower than it has been in the past.
I guess nineteen ninety is when it start to drop off,
usually around the Christmas season is usually when the crime rate is a little bit higher.
that's probably not true only for Atlanta, but for just about anywhere.
what kind of crime problem do you usually run into?
Any specifics ?
the least, on the news, there are very few, actual robberies reported, residences.
What's more likely to occur is, small store or a car theft, things of that nature.
Very few, assaults,
on the college campuses, there are, cases of, people getting and, somebody trying device a scam getting the money for them that actually preys mostly on foreigners.
mostly petty things and, nothing, nothing really too big.
I guess here we run into that sometime,
I guess a lot of crimes are done with apartment type break ins
that type, not much home break ins.
There are some, but very high.
as far as tellers and things like that, it's not extremely high either.
There were one case where, this one guy, was taking women from the teller making them give him money and stuff and
then at the same time, raping them all,
that's kind of like a double assault there.
a strange case happened, was someone actually stole a complete automated teller machine.
It was a free standing machine
they backed up into it with a truck
and put it on the back and drove away with it.
there's a crime for you.
there's a crime.
I guess most of the things that happen around here pretty, innocuous.
Although, from what I hear in the news,
an episode of the T V show, COPS
one time that was in Pittsburgh,
it did surprise me, because, they were doing drug arrests like that,
don't really think those things happen too often because, like I said, from what's reported in the news, at least, not all that common.
I don't know,
crime situations here, they,
like I say, cases is usually just apartments break ins and things like that
a lot of it is due to drugs.
drug related, most cases,
it's not like, it's someone do steal or television or V C R or something like that
it is for drugs, because you really can't on the street make any money off of it per se,
you going to get ten or fifteen bucks for it
you really not making a sizeable profit.
it's not really lucrative to take chances like that, even though does exist.
live in an apartment.
Right now I'm finishing out my last semester at the University of Pittsburgh
the apartment would be very easy for just about anyone to break in .
even so, it's still difficult for me to convince my apartment mates lock the doors when they go out , and things like
it would be so easy for someone who is motivated to do so to just, sit out back, take a look at when people are here and when they're not
just come in,
there's a T V and a V C R
get in pretty easy especially, since there are bedrooms upstairs
and people leave the door open, while they're upstairs playing music,
it could still happen then.
that's true,
you'd be surprised also how, much people watch you that even not, participating in any type crime.
I guess there was one case,
I was surprised,
so happened this person worked at the same place,
I work for Georgia Tech
they work at the same place I did,
I didn't know that they had been watching me
I was getting ready go in my car one morning
the first thing they said is, you must don't have to be to work at eight,
like shock,
I, get a lot of my news driving home from work listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED on national public radio.
that is one of my big sources for current events information.
I really like that coverage.
My wife, on the other hand is home most of the day
she watches a lot of the cable news network.
you, ever heard of ALL THINGS CONSIDERED?
we don't have the, national public radio my area.
I can hear it at college town nearby when I'm in Stillwater, which is about an hour away,
the F M signal doesn't reach this far.
I'll listen to shortwave quite a bit.
It gives you a whole different perspective on the news, when you hear it from, a European
point of view, or from the country of origin.
I agree with you, too, on cable channel, C N N and HEADLINE NEWS.
I'm not too satisfied with our local newspaper
which is why I rely on shortwave then the cable,
cable, C N N.
I'm, interested shortwave aspect of it.
how do you find that coverage from other places in the world , compares with the American coverage of,
how do you think that, the viewpoints differ?
I think a lot of it is just, the fact that in the U S you're so far removed, in a lot of cases from, conflicts
it's not happening in your backyard
more of a, it's not as personal, the news isn't as personal in what we receive domestically what's on shortwave.
is almost,
they almost take all emotions out of it when they
report it
it just,
they seem to give more of just the facts than opinions.
Do you think, then, that, the American media is presenting an opinion along with their facts?
very much so,
very much so,
think a lot of it is, especially T V news,
they don't really have the time and a lot of them don't have the education and the background to,
to really decipher the news and to really explain it.
think it's important to interpret it,
a lot of times the person doesn't have the experience do the interpreting.
approach do you find to be, more useful, interpretive approach or the straight reporting?
I like the straight reporting.
hope to be able to form my own opinion of it.
nice to hear someone's interpretation of it
I always think it's humorous the President gives the State of the Union for thirty minutes
for an hour and a half you hear different commentators explaining what you just heard.
a lot of time I don't hear exactly write into it.
think I would rather hear just straight reporting.
One of the things that I found interesting last year during Gulf conflict was a sentiment against, Peter Arnett, who had stayed in Iraq and was presenting, some of the things that were available.
piece where he was showing a bombed out building where there was obviously a erected sign saying baby milk factory,
while he was being severely, censored and could not make any judgment call on this, it was fairly obvious that it was a piece of propaganda,
people were really down on him for reporting the fact that, isn't a baby milk factory,
how could he say it was,
think that,
that to me showed that the Americans were really getting used to having facts, but also the conclusions and opinions spoon fed to them.
think that opinion.
want to sit down in front of the TV read a magazine or U S A TODAY and read in four paragraphs, find out every ,
let's talk about the, wonderful abuses in the State of Pennsylvania of personal property taxes whereby you can purchase something mail order
after the fact, the State of Pennsylvania can find out about it and send you a bill for the sales tax appropriate to that item that you purchased as well as interest and penalties from the time that you bought it.
What do you think?
Is Pennsylvania kind of out of line there?
I don't think they're out of line.
advocate possibly,
are trying to avoid paying taxes
or not you agree with that law, still circumventing it.
You are legal your circumvention of that law.
if you're not doing it in order to circumvent the law though?
what if you don't even realize that you're subject to paying, income tax on something that you purchase mail order?
Really, I don't think that's a valid argument.
I think that most people are quite aware they're not paying that six percent sales tax.
naturally things you just can't find in your local K Mart Bryn Mawr stereo dealer.
th , then why not the sales tax (( )).
Corporations have to,
why should an individual can't really find out about it, be able to avoid paying sales tax?
it seems to me that, generally, at least in my own experience, when I purchase something mail order, it's not to circumvent paying sales tax to the State of Pennsylvania.
It's because, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
it's because can't find the item that I want at a competitive price anywhere in my local area.
I go outside the area for that.
I think that it's not my responsibility to police myself and pay Pennsylvania what they believe they are owed even though, the revenue stream went to another state.
think that that's my responsibility conscientious consumer.
agree not your responsibility
is it also legal,
for you to do that?
what I understand from various net readings, it, the Federal government is going to try to legislate a more aggressive enforcement of state tax schemes, place in the next few years.
a lost revenue stream right now
states use all the revenue they can get.
like that, your arguments still apply?
I think that policy is established and if a mechanism is put into place to promote the collection of taxes in this fashion, then I don't argue with it.
it's not a burden on the consumer to remember that I bought this out of state.
I need to Xerox the receipt and make out a check for six percent and send it to Pennsylvania.
Which is exactly what businesses do at the present.
the point is is that businesses do that.
The business that you purchase the thing from is responsible for collecting the appropriate sales tax and forwarding it to the state in question.
That's a cost of doing business.
The burden
shouldn't be placed on the consumer.
I was actually talking about businesses purchasing something mail order and then to pay sales tax on it.
That's my understanding of it works.
Usually, person ordering doesn't pay.
the accounting department will, suck up all the bills at the end of the month and realize how much they have to pay.
substantial, nasty penalties, try to avoid that.
do you mean businesses from the point of view selling things to a consumer and
I , (( )).
then being responsible for the sales tax?
Or purchasing.
if purchasing things mail order,
I'm a computer consulting firm and I see great deal on forty six mother boards, say Utah.
might buy the mother boards from Utah but then still have to pay Pennsylvania sales tax.
My department will at the end of the month.
I think that's the way things work in Pennsylvania.
I know they work that way D C.
I'm unfamiliar with that because that end of the business.
my only experience has been from the point of view of a consumer.
if that's the case, if the business is responsible for policing themselves, then I think some well defined mechanisms need to be in place so that, the opportunity to forget that you owe sales tax for something, can be avoided.
That's true.
a r , a big hole does exist right now, in that consumers can just say forgot that.
is no well defined mechanism at all
that it is think is that the Federal government will try to establish a mechanism to do just to gain the revenue that's being lost.
don't know if I agree with that.
Do you,
what is your, family,
what do you usually do as far as budgeting?
We have a very detailed budget. Because my husband is a finance major.
money that we take out each month for food gas and things like that.
we put aside so much money each month for birthdays and for Christmas and for, other things.
Then we take our major purchases we want to make during that year
we budget them into what we call needs and wants list.
the things like a vacation.
We have a vacation fund.
We have a fund for the things we need. And then for the things that we want.
we're continually putting into those, each month how much we're going to need
we know the month that we're going to have enough to get that particular item.
we very rarely buy anything on credit.
Everything we buy is paid for.
My husband is a finance major also .
we kind of have the same plan.
we have one credit card
every month we put, the same amount in for retirement.
our, our new thing to our budget is we just had a baby.
budgeting, each month, an allowance for his education
starting now.
that's in our budget every month now.
That's the newest addition.
we too do the same thing as far as,
we have a set amount
we take, one big vacation a year and then maybe, three small vacations.
exact amount that we spend on that each year.
we have found that we spend less money if we pull out the money.
instead of just writing checks for things.
If we actually pull it out and keep it in a safe here.
I see.
we actually pull out the money each month that we want to put in for birthdays, that we want to put in for, the vacation. That we put in for Christmas.
you have a separate account for that then?
a lot of that, I don't know how safe it is.
I guess, we keep it all in a safe here at the house.
I see.
it's actually pulled out.
Then we keep our
I see.
we have a savings account for the kids' education.
That money goes into there.
Each of our,
we have three children.
they each have their own account.
I see.
That money is put into each month.
Does your husband deal in, stocks and bonds and mutual funds and all that kind of stuff?
he invest in that and
He does somewhat.
for long term?
He does somewhat.
we have an investment plan.
I guess he does.
we have really found,
this is the first year we've done it this way.
we are really saving a lot of money.
you've sat down with a piece of paper and said let's see what are we going to,
what goes into particular thing?
It's vacations, Christmas.
Christmas, birthdays, car maintenance, dental, medical,
we just averaged out how much last year we used per month on medical and how much
we used on dental
now when we have to come up with that deductible that our insurance doesn't cover
rather than wondering where it's going to come from,
we have it,
we see something on sale, instead of just looking in our checking account and saying well we've got enough and getting it, and then when something comes up, kind of scrimping to pay for a medical bill.
Everything's taken care of.
we're finding that we even have more money than we thought.
Yeah .
what do you do as far as,
take it,
do you, run the family budget as far as, groceries and that sort of thing?
I do.
All the money.
All the money is turned over to me.
Do you have a set amount you spend each month
how do you work that?
I have a set amount.
It's very generous
I usually have extra.
then that can go, back into our checking account
I can just carry it over.
there are certain months of the year that you'll spend more on food than other months. And
certain times when that will be left over.
that's completely up to me how I do that.
C And
then, because I don't work. I stay home.
I do too.
I stay home also.
it's kind of my money
I also get my own money to do what I want to. Go to lunches, and do that kind of thing.
We have a clothing, envelope for each of the kids and for myself and my husband that we put how much we figure we need each month on clothing.
It really works out great.
We're finding that we have a lot more money to spend on things like that.
as far as big things like something comes up and you have to buy a T V or a big item, for the house.
do you have a household?
We have a household budget.
we're going to need to buy a bed for my daughter that's coming out of her crib this year.
also, we need a new bed.
we've got both of those budgeted
we put a certain amount in each month
we know which month we'll enough saved to go buy those.
if we find one on sale before then, then we can just take that and put it towards ,
(( )).
here in Logan, Utah, we've got a nice little valley here
it's crystal clear all the time except for during the winter when the inversion sets in
we get a little bit of pollution in the valley.
here in Seattle, more and more polluted.
in kind of a basin .
Seattle is on Puget Sound which is a inland waterway between two mountains.
there's been of around here .
getting worse .
I think
most of it is from cars.
Here in Utah up along the Wasatch (( )) along the western side Rocky Mountains here, where a lot of the big cities are Salt Lake and Ogden and Provo
Logan's up in the valley a little bit further north,
we get a lot of pollution
it's like seventy percent of it is from cars.
huh .
it always really hits hard during the winter when we get the inversion .
when we get,
get cold air down in the valleys and warm air up above
it just sits and sits and sits
we're starting to hit pollution levels now on the Wasatch front which match that of L A a few years ago.
almost sad.
when I grew up here, it was just always the crisp air up in the mountain valleys
now it's not in the mountain valleys.
I live in the,
university district
it's supposed to have about the worst air pollution .
I think probably due to, a lot of students going back and forth to school.
we're right next to Interstate Five also.
They're getting serious about things like, mandatory,
they've already passed laws where you have to get your cars checked for pollution if you're in certain counties,
(( )) have they started doing that yet?
They've actually started doing it down along the,
not in Logan up here cause we're doing a lot better.
lighter up here.
We have that here
expanding it to, more counties here. as the population spreads out
I think they're also going to be making it, mandatory for more cars.
there was, something in the law about if you're car was over a certain age, like over twenty years old, you didn't have to get it done anymore.
I think they're eliminating that,
They're that out here.
that loophole.
They're also talking very seriously about the thing called a dirt gun. Where they're, looking at the emissions from the car using basically a spectrometer and looking at basically how much of what is coming out of the exhaust.
Kind of like a radar gun.
You mean they could
do that remotely?
Do it remotely just looking at what they do,
they do several different types of things.
Sometimes they put a source light
they look at the source light
as the car goes by, you can see the exhaust pipe and the source light behind it
you can look at the emissions actually.
where does the source light go?
across the street.
They'll set up
I see.
a trap or something like that in some sense.
they're also looking at, other, ways of monitoring this cause they've found out something basically that,
a poorly tuned car can emit something,
it's an incredible amount.
It was four hundred times as much
of certain pollutants, then a properly tuned car.
the idea being that that were producing like fifty percent of pollution then, be one way to cut the pollution in half.
That's neat .
it's also been,
everybody is talking about using more mass transient here
looked into riding the bus to work
I can drive to work and get there in twenty to twenty five minutes over a very congested corridor. Which goes over Lake Washington on one of the floating bridges.
take the bus, it requires several transfers
it takes over an hour.
they're ...
it's, it's not hard to see I keep driving.
I feel guilty cause I'm driving a ,
Hi .
should say something.
That I'm the, least informed,
this is totally accidental that I have to talk about this topic.
the least informed person in the whole United States.
This has not been determined yet
I've never read a newspaper in my entire life
I never watch T V news nor listen to the news on the radio unless I'm just happening to be listening to music and they slip it on in the car radio before I can turn it off.
Any particular reason? .
I've explored that with lots of people.
they've tried to lock me up and, things like that.
I'm basically not interested
I also find everything is so slick and superficial and misguided
what am I trying to say.
I do learn about things.
Largely from friends
I occasionally will read something like the NEW YORK REVIEW OF BOOKS.
someone will write a book about something
I'll learn all about this thing that was in the news two years earlier.
anything I participated in or know about when I read about it in the paper is always covered from such a funny and superficial perspective that I don't have much confidence in it.
I don't think it's just that I'm lazy .
I really don't,
I like to refer to this as sort of CONSUMER REPORT phenomenon.
Which is everybody that I know reads CONSUMER REPORTS so the people who do feel that CONSUMER REPORTS does a wholly inadequate job in their area of particular interest.
assume that they do a reasonable job in other areas.
without thinking that there were people who think each other specialty
I guess you could explain it two ways.
the cynical view is, these things aren't doing a very good job at all.
the view that I would rather take
is that there's a different amount of information you need when you're particularly interested in a topic or, particularly interested in buying something as a,
as a hobbyist versus when you want to go out and buy a blender because you need to mix things.
I think the same thing is true with news.
If you want to just have an idea as to what's going on, most papers, especially the better papers, TIMES, the WALL STREET JOURNAL, the
WASHINGTON POST give you a reasonable idea.
If you were deeply involved in it, then you immediately realize that what they print is stuff that you probably knew already and the stuff that you want they're not printing because the average person doesn't need or want to know
Doesn't want,
that much.
Let me ask, by the way, just for the record.
I totally concede that intelligent people read these things and intelligent people write them.
I'm not being elitist in that sense, I hope.
a reasonable question as to whether it's worth the amount of time it takes to keep up on things .
most people think it is
accept that some people think it's not and can find better ways to use it.
By the way when you say most people think it is,
I think it's like ninety nine point ninety nine think it is, percent.
I don't think it's that high.
you don't?
I know a lot of people who may watch the T V news in the evening but don't spend the time to actually read a newspaper.
I think they're saying if something's really important, I'll at least find out that it happened.
reasonable start
for awhile I didn't read a newspaper when I came out here because I didn't find one that I liked.
if something important happened, it was covered on T V
I could then go pick up newspapers it were important enough to read about.
I imagine you get the same level of (( )) something that you cared about happened, you'd find out from friends or other channels .
I did, on Supreme Court hearings, for, the whole business of,
I actually have
Clarence Thomas or,
the Thomas and Anita Hill business.
the closest thing.
I deeply cared about that.
I sort of had planned to have dinner with a friend of mine
when I arrived at her house, she was engrossed in that.
We ended up watching it for a couple of hours. Zooming out and grabbing something to eat and then zooming back and it some more.
I thought that was terrific because she actually helped me understand what was going on.
even then, I didn't end up doing it on my own.
I stayed as far away from those as I could.
I decided I didn't want to waste the time
I had, I guess, five years ago now, wasted that kind of time with Oliver North hearings.
And afterwards, decided that what I had gotten out of it just wasn't worth the time I put in.
And that these things are just very slow in seeing information
come out.
Do you ever read,
sort of company do you work for?
Do you work for a big or a little place?
I work for Georgia Tech.
Yes sir.
I work for the research facility.
kind of small in a sense
does have, about, I guess, two thousand civil employees.
on scale, I guess it's still considered small.
It just have a lot of different laboratories.
The area I work in, primarily have maybe a hundred people or so.
that's make up most of the laboratory
that standpoint, it's pretty small
it's pretty small.
What about yourself?
work for, actually probably similar kind of place.
I work for, Lincoln Laboratory.
We actually do some work with some people down at Georgia Tech.
I see.
we're actually part of M I T.
it's very much the same kind of place
the technical institution.
while I was sitting here waiting while they tried to find somebody for me to talk to, trying to think of things were important, besides salary job. I guess, (( )) list I had scribbled down was the people you worked with and maybe challenge of the work and,
the working conditions, things like that.
I don't know.
would you consider important?
those and probably the security aspect of it.
Because a lot of time nowadays, even though you're working, you're treated,
it may not be true in every place.
In a lot of cases I think you're treated more like a number instead of person.
when it come down to layoff, they don't really consider people their well being as far as, how to come in.
How they going to pay their bills.
They just lay them off.
I was reading this book one time about this guy that had,
I think the company still exists.
What they use to do is, they used to cut the number of hours for everybody as opposed to just laying people off
That way that, one person wouldn't get one big blunt blow at one time.
I think if they had programs that set up to subsidize people that do get laid off a little bit better, other than like,
unemployment is good
the company as a whole
you as an employee, even the company is making money,
they paying you a salary
you are responsible for that company growth.
You're responsible also for helping that company get to the that it's at at making profits.
there should be something in there or some kind of clause that will subsidize people if they did lose their job other than, neglect or something like that.
it's not a person's fault that, people not buying or businesses not on the up and up all the time,
I don't see how one or two people, maybe more one or two, but, a number of people be the downfall of situation.
how do you mean that?
I know it,
in a sense that say, how do you make conclusion that you're going to lay off these ten people.
for the bad times of the company.
What about work effort those ten people did when the company was doing well.
In that standpoint.
think it's better than try to spread effort equally among all the employees of the company
I do.
I really do.
I think it'd be better that way
even at that, it would at least give the person time to look for another job because
they know there are problems
there are reason to look for another job
instead of just dumping it on them all at one time.
my views,
I've heard of a couple of companies that have done that.
I think, back about, a few years ago when things were tough, Hewlett Packard did that for awhile.
They went to a four and a half day work week rather
than everybody back ten percent.
And, have to, give everybody a half day a week off.
I think you can do that for a little while
at least that would give a person a chance to look
Because the way it is, a person really don't have a chance .
All right, have you lived in this area long?
I've only been here a couple of years.
noticed that, this year it seems to have been a lot warmer than it has in the past.
it's, it's a lot warmer, a lot drier too, because usually about this time of year, you see a little bit more rain.
mid February, we start getting a lot of rain.
I remember last year,
we had ice and snow,
terrible ice storm, around this time of the year.
this year it's been so hot and, sunny
really amazing.
live in San Antonio, couple years ago,
I remember the first day of Spring,
it was so much ice that came down, later on and evening,
I was just talking to my son today,
he's up in Boston,
it was twenty nine there
it was, in the seventies out here
it was really,
he really wished he could be here, rather than there.
I don't know
guess I'm just sort of acclimated to colder weather.
like it warmer,
it doesn't really matter.
much rather see it cool at this time of year anyway because it would mean a little bit more rain possibly
I have,
don ,
I think it's really been delightful.
most of my time warm weather areas
the ice and snow just doesn't, hold any allure for me at all.
I spent three years in Germany,
I'm not too thrilled with the whole thing anyway .
I got used to it,
it was really strange,
when, when we came to San Antonio it was just swelter
we got used to it
we went up to Dallas
it was just,
that it's just hot or dry,
it's just not very comfortable,
it just,
Her ,
do think San Antonio is more comfortable than Dallas.
a little bit.
You must,
it must be quite a bit hotter down there, isn't it?
my wife and I, we, parents, and my brother and sister,
down there
the last day, right before we left, ride with my sister
the air conditioning went out on the car ,
you just get used to air conditioning all the time,
it was just,
the humidity was like
it was just killing us.
it's terrible.
Orlando is the only place I've ever been where I've seen the car sweat.
that's really bad.
I guess I've been in some places, where the weather was just so mild, places like Monterey, California or,
just, so mild,
you've been to such extremes like San Angelo, Texas outside and you sweat,
you're sweating,
you look down at your arm,
you see the water leaving your arm,
it's so hot,
you just feel it pulling away, bizarre.
I know I tend to be able to get along with monotony in the weather when it's very temperate.
it doesn't,
some people say, like to watch the changing of the seasons
I'd rather, like southern California, have it kind of sunny and temperate all the time.
it's kind of a luxury.
I tend to agree
I don't know,
think, in some respects it probably (( )) more tolerable.
I guess weather isn't as lively a topic some of the others we might have gotten.
the other topics.
I got one topic,
they said talk about the Middle East situ ,
I guess we're supposed to say good bye or something, and think about what
my daughter is here prodding me to say good bye.
We messed up the conversation, anyway.
I've had some pretty bad, I guess some pretty controversial topics
it's just like that was my fault.
the weather's
man, it gets pretty mundane,
you can only talk the situation just so long.
I know,
weather's just not all that inspiring.
it's nice talking to you.
Bye bye.
pretty good,
pretty good.
we're talking about drug testing in the work place, *
Drug testing in the work place.
I've been tested a few times, just before employment.
that's about it.
I've never had random drug testing.
we have random drug testing my business,
I've to do it.
they started that about a year ago,
I think it's mostly for field people that, drive trucks and heavy machinery, that kind of stuff.
have done some testing around our office, mostly after lunch, looking for people beer and stuff at lunch time,
at least that's.
they do with alcohol.
They do it with alcohol?
they'll check for alcohol.
I thought it was just like marijuana or cocaine.
you start doing that stuff, stuck into, checking for thing.
That's interesting.
it's a,
What type of field of work are you in?
I'm in the oil business.
in the oil business.
you work in the office around.
I work in the office,
it's safe environment.
I work in the automotive air bag industry, where we make the safety bags
for the cars,
we work around a lot of explosives.
that sounds like kind of an important job to be, straight on.
I'm all for it, because type of environment I work in, they're working with explosives,
they could blow up the whole,
they have safety features with each of the explosives they use,
still, it can be dangerous.
I agree.
I think that, under certain circumstances, especially when you're working high risk, industries, where you can really hurt other people, you need to have that kind of stuff.
if it's,
as long as it's not abused, random,
as long as it's random, the individual's rights protected, I don't have that big a problem with it.
do they fire them, or do they?
this is it,
this is where I start having my problems with my company.
I work for a private company,
the policy is something like, If you turn yourself in as having a drug related problem, then you're eligible for company counseling.
if they catch you, if you test positive for controlled substance, then you get fired.
sort of one of these little catch twenty twos.
I think our policy is that,
all right, it's probably the same thing.
I'm not really sure what the ,
it's one of those things that you read once,
not worried about it, you just forget about it .
That's right.
I know, they do have counseling, and that they do give you a second chance,
I'm not sure if
if it's if you get caught or if you turn yourself in.
our company's a little tougher on the second chance.
they're going to give you the opportunity to turn yourself in, then they ought to, go out of the way, I think, a little bit more rehabilitated back at your job.
a private company, the rules don't always apply.
hard for me evaluate it because everybody I work around is in an office environment
it's not,
I guess I run into anybody been a problem.
it works, much any lottery,
everybody's got an equal chance to get picked.
I'd rather have that than, say this week the A s and B s are going to be in
next week,
C s and D s are going to come in .
You could time it just right.
I know one employee,
I know, when I was working with, he had alcohol on his breath,
I'm not sure if our policy covers that or not.
That'd be just as dangerous.
especially around, equipment, machinery and stuff.
That's true.
gone out and beer at lunch time, but not to excess in any case .
Do they give any limits on alcohol,
is it?
I don't remember, to tell you the truth.
I don't think they do.
they must,
gee whiz.
That just shows you how much I've been paying attention,
really don't know.
I'll have to go into work tomorrow and ask .
you can take some of testing a little bit too far.
there was a company in Houston
they did, an unannounced drug sweep company
it was an unannounced sweep
it was not only drugs,
Okay Karen.
I was just going to say I think one of the biggest thing for me is room for advancement. not to get a dead end job.
plus, for me, it's, medical and benefits and dental.
They're also important.
I guess one of the differences I see is, working for a university, there is room for advancement, but not so much so, in, quite a highly unionized environment
and then also in the administrative association
there is a progressive path,
not being in commercial sector, the motivation isn't there for a lot of people
Are they pretty much train for a specific job
that what I hired for and then just very little variation from that.
somewhat that,
also there just isn't the ability to in one sense have, a broader scope for rewarding people for their performances.
that's in our situation where we are dealing with an institution,
it's a little more difficult to recognize an individual's performance
I suppose that's maybe a disadvantage of being in a larger institution, perhaps somewhat even with the business,
I agree, the, medical benefits and those kinds of things are one of the big pluses of working for a large organization and also the, security aspect for long term employment,
that's interesting though.
I don't know if that's necessarily the case anymore.
I use to think that, after you work,
you mean
Job security,
that use to be I think a couple of years ago,
I don't know if it is so much anymore.
In fact, just had a lay off in what November, I guess.
it wasn't necessarily,
some people had been there a long time.
we are seeing that here as well.
in some of the large oil companies. There has been massive lay offs.
think probably a major distinction between institutions and the corporate world
in, institutions are slower to react both on the growth side and then also on the reduction side where the businesses, we need to cut back, that's what we do.
No doubt
institutionally, like here at the university, if there is a cut back, it's not
it's where it's most expedient which,
that's exactly it.
it cuts back the most.
in one sense for us, it's where it makes the least noise which means it's
often the lowest support type roles.
I think that's one of the things too.
You get too many management people,
It's very easy.
it's very easy for them to say, this is the best way when they really aren't aware of what all it took to get the work done
they wonder why it doesn't get done in the same amount of time.
those people aren't there anymore.
it's support people that are providing
the speed for it.
what else do you think is important?
that's maybe the majority of the importance, I guess.
my perspective is from an institution,
is not much incentive for innovativeness
because the limitation for reward is very severe
if you're in the corporate world, I think there is considerable motivation for I guess
although the more complex your structure the, less difficult it is to kind of carry some things through
I think a long term type of process where in a small organization things can happen much more quickly
you can see the reward of the efforts.
I think probably in a small,
I was going to say personal for one thing.
You probably have a better team, cooperation, or team playing, atmosphere.
Probably, where as in a bigger corporation, I think you're just a number,
You end up being your own person
if you do your job fine and if somebody else is messing it up, then that's their problem
you really,
whereas in a smaller,
I think you would be more willing to either help that person or help it get accomplished,
It becomes the organization instead of person being a part of the individual themselves.
with the issue of trial by jury, I actually found the whole question about whether you need a unanimous verdict in a criminal case to be somewhat interesting.
agree that that's an interesting thing.
believe civil suits it's not unanimous,
criminal suits it's unanimous by federal law?
I don't know if it's even true that it's always unanimous because I thought there were cases it was okay for a state to have it eleven out of twelve.
I actually thought I'd read that, too
that's why I phrased it that way.
I wonder,
could be that for, felonies versus federal felonies that jurisdiction require the unanimous vote,
things that are under state jurisdiction, even criminal don't require,
I don't know what laws,
do you think that that's an unreasonable, requirement that they be unanimous?
I'd be curious as to what the, requirement for acquittal is.
don't think it would be wrong to say that eleven out of twelve can convict if there were something corresponding saying that if, six or seven voted not guilty, then instead of it being a hung jury, that was an acquittal.
I don't know whether you need unanimous, vote of not guilty to acquit.
would be an interesting change.
It was also allow the, idea that if you had one person who was, very disagreeable that, fundamentally changes the way the processing occurs because, principle is that the fact that it's unanimous insures the beyond a reasonable doubt, criterion that it, increases likelihood of getting the proper judgment.
think, if anything, it would have to be a very close to unanimous decision.
I'd agree with that.
I've never had opportunity to serve on a jury, although I've been out here and registered for, I guess, about five years.
thought that that would be very interesting thing to do.
I would like to do that.
I've been out here twenty some years
I've been called, three different times,
I've never actually even made it into jury box.
because there have always been a number of people
I've never gotten up there to answer any of the questions.
I also think that would be really good.
the people I know who have served have said that usually what ends up happening is that, after initially finding out where people stand, that the whole deliberation usually results, if there is nine, three more severe the people in the majority trying to convince the minority that they're right
in fact, I'm not sure that that's any more, liable to get rid of the reasonable doubt anything else.
one thing that I know does seem to happen from people I've talked to on this, is that in the situation you just said where it's nine to three, or some such number, a lot of peer pressure
going on
peer pressure,
in some cases if it's a long trial, the desire of people to get out of there and not be stuck in there for a very long time, that people are changing their minds for the wrong reasons.
read one book, that,
went through and interviewed a bunch of jurors in some of the big cases, and in many cases looking at the evidence afterwards as to whether the decision was right, went back to the jurors, based on the deliberations.
Some of them did say that, when they were the only one left opposing the verdict, everyone was getting on them heavily that eventually they just gave in knowing that nothing they could do could stop it from either being the verdict everyone else was trying for or a hung jury because the one vote doesn't mean anything except the ability to not have a verdict.
would hope that if you were in that situation that you'd have the moral fortitude, to hold out if you believed that that was really the proper response.
I think of the movie, TWELVE ANGRY MEN.
You ever seen that movie?
, yeah,
it's exactly that situation where,
it's Henry Fonda
it's eleven to one
he's the one,
believe he was opposed to the conviction
he held on
do you think you get good coverage from the sources that you have?
actually no,
I'm in school.
kind of miss out on most of the current events.
I just catch the major ones off the news or if someone starts to talk about it.
Do you watch a lot of T V to get the news then?
I don't watch a lot of it,
that's the on ,
basically that's my only major source of information.
I read,
I get a bunch of different things.
I get a newspaper every day
I try to least have a few minutes to look through that
I look through,
I get a NEWSWEEK every week which pretty much read that cover to cover
I, as far as,
that satisfies most of the short term news I get.
don't watch much T V,
don't have enough time
don't listen to the radio too much especially the news channels or anything like that,
they might give you a little blurbs like
this happened or that happened
that's about all I ever hear of it.
most of my news probably comes from NEWSWEEK
for the longer term read, SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN READERS' DIGEST and some of those other types of magazines that come out which, they,
the news isn't, immediate what you'd generally think of as news,
it's recent material.
it's more in depth.
more in depth, less broad.
it's, probably isn't less broad,
it's just more in depth
it is more just significant information,
It is the big events, not the little events.
Not the fact that there was a big auto accident down on the corner of Broad and Main,
I know,
where they're just trying to fill in.
they're time because they to fill in an hour's worth of news.
I get kind of bored watching T V actually, when I watch the news on T V because
I know,
it goes so slow
there's nothing that, really is so exciting.
you may find one little, news item interesting
you have to wait twenty minutes hear about it.
about what it ends up being.
Listen to the news to hear the traffic report or something .
mention NEWSWEEK,
I do like, U S NEWS AND WORLD REPORT.
I don't get to read it as much as I like,
a good magazine.
I think they're about the same.
they certainly have a very similar, charter at least in my mind.
what kind of news normally interests you,
do you find interesting
versus what do you find boring?
right now trying to keep abreast of, what's going on in Europe, with all the, U S S R's satellites breaking off, trying to become independent and, European community coming together.
That's going to affect our, economy quite a bit.
I think it will,
keep claiming it's going to have a big influence,
we've yet to see it
th ,
it's real short term yet, though,
it's only been, three months or something like that
since that happened
they like to tell us that it's going to be important .
pretty sure it is, because,
I think it is, too.
Europe becomes unified and, their economy becomes one big economy we're going to be, kind of hurting .
think that's a possibility,
might also be helped, though, because will be easier to do business over there, too.
For the companies that already have a presence over there
I know of at least one company that specifically went over there and established a presence before nineteen ninety two so that they would have it when it
came time.
so they have a toe hold,
I good toe hold.
once you're in there, then you can easily expand.
getting in after nineteen ninety two is more difficult.
when they first start off, they're going to be highly protectionist
there's already a lot of evidence that they are being very protectionist,
even amongst themselves, they're being somewhat protectionist,
England doesn't want to do one thing
Sweden doesn't want to do other thing
all got their own reasons which have to be resolved yet.
some of it, is,
I'm sure within those people's minds, it's quite justified.
can understand their viewpoint,
starting off,
their economy's a little bit weak,
you want to
get established before they
Before they
com ,
open up their borders to everyone.
what is the,
do you watch anything with sports or anything like that?
I'm not really into sports.
My roommates are,
unfortunately, I forced to watch quite a bit of sports.
Against your will.
we have to, fight over the remote control.
at least you guys have a remote control.
It's sometimes better to not have one of those.
Course, you can always mislocate it.
misplace it,
what kind of music you into?
I have a, pretty wide taste, in music, ranging from progressive rock to jazz to, lot of different forms of, music.
In fact, it's easier for me to say, the types of music that I don't like are opera and, screaming heavy metal.
The opera, it's right on track.
I like classical,
I can't deal with opera at all.
heavy metal, it's noisy.
I'm into, some industrial music that's, bit even harder than that.
got to have a point to it.
I don't mind music that's difficult to listen to,
basic point of heavy metal seems to be music to annoy you,
a little annoying.
What kind of progressive stuff?
lot of stuff that actually has, ended up becoming popular like, Nirvana and,
I'm thirty,
lot of the stuff I was listening to in my teens like the Clash the Sex Pistols and
R E M, that sort of stuff.
R E M makes me laugh because they've gone from a college radio progressive group to being, ultra mainstream at this point,
it's not really that they've changed their musical style so much as the stream changed.
it's, a lot of people saying that, bands in that position, sold out.
I think that's pretty much, bull.
R E M really hasn't changed.
If, interesting.
They're producing, similar music
it's good music
people have picked up on it.
That's good.
I think it is.
I'm impressed.
for a while there, not a lot of point to it.
I was really tired of, the Michael Bolton.
Bolton really got on my nerves because he,
he was making all this money doing mediocre cover tunes.
I could, go down to a bar that's about three minutes from my house and hear people doing covers better than him not making nearly as much money.
he picked the right songs
I guess.
about all he had going for him. Or still has, for that matter.
That, and a marvelous hairdo.
I'm sure that sold a lot for him.
That's all you really need for a pop.
of developed short hatred pop.
It just seems like there's real point.
You hear the tune over and over again
in a thousand guises
interesting because saying that you liked classical music
I like a lot of classical music,
I also dislike, some classical music,
what gets me even more is the attitude of people who are really into classical music,
and feel that it's not seventy five years old, it hasn't stood the test of time.
believe that.
What kind of things like in classical?
What's the
Stuff that I like,
I like Bach.
I tolerate Vivaldi.
I can't,
stand, Debussy or Debussy .
I like Tchaikovsky.
He can make a lot of noise when he's, so inclined.
stuff that I like,
for instance, Frank Zappa has done a fair amount of orchestral composition
that's interesting music,
it would not get performed by any, municipally funded, philharmonic,
just because, number one, it's Frank Zappa and he's weird, number two, isn't he still alive.
much better off playing, Beethoven's ninth,
that's right,
we'll do the ninth
everyone will know it and
It's safe.
and hum it
it just isn't chance taking enough for me.
I feel that music should take chances in one way or another and that, if you've heard a piece, times,
Do you think that there's any way that,
do you think there's too much crime now?
I guess,
any crime is too much
It's out of control.
out of control, I don't know.
I guess it could be worse.
we've got quite a bit of crime in our neighborhood.
I live in the university district in Seattle near the University of Washington.
a lot of problems.
there's a big rise in homelessness and more street people
we get on our block, regularly, through, rifled through and stuff.
guessed that in Seattle.
you figured it was like Omaha,
not Newark,
it's got problems.
really is the answer.
it seems like the prison systems, we can't seem to decide whether or not it's a reform system or penal system.
I think most people regard it as a warehouse.
Where you put away the people that are so bad that, you don't want them out in circulation.
the problem that only have but so much room
try to put aside in the warehouse,
all we do is just displace other people which come back into society and
commit crimes
That's what I hear.
don't you feel like most people have given up on the rehabilitation idea?
I get the feeling that a lot of people have.
I'm not convinced that I have.
my mom taught English as a second language
she was dealing mostly with people that in on drug crimes
you mean she taught in a prison?
In a
I see.
in a maximum security prison down in central Virginia.
the problem she had was not with the inmates at all.
people that she had the most problems with were the people that ran the prison.
put her,
see the classroom, and, hopefully never will,
put her at the end of a hallway,
there were no other classes going on at the time
they refused to let her wear
I don't know exactly what that is,
I just assume it was something that she could hit immediately really annoy a lot of people.
(( )),
she didn't feel safe.
she didn't.
She didn't,
felt fine for the first year when she had her first set of inmates,
later on administration kept getting worse,
she got a couple of inmates that feel quite as comfortable around.
she didn't feel that public schools
next thing you know she's teaching in a maximum security prison.
at least it's maximum security, .
the point was, that it,
you said that perhaps, people have given up the thought that rehabilitation's possible
thinking that it's even to the point that the people that run the system have given up on it.
think the people the system are the most hardened and probably the most cynical,
I talked to a few people who worked in prisons and stuff
you can get pretty hardened, I'm sure.
I always have problems I can never decide whether or not supposed to be a conservative a liberal
I keep,
Those are funny ((labels, )).
I keep thinking that there's got to be some way, a lot of this is circumstances.
I can't help but wonder I grew up without a father, on the streets, and
with little or no money, wouldn't
wouldn't I be in prison ((at this point))?
you can blame it on social problems.
I don't know.
as poverty has gotten worse, as, education has gotten worse, as there's been more single parent families, as there's been more homelessness, there's crime.
We've got methadone programs where people who desperately want to get off drugs can't
there's not enough
get onto the program.
beds and treatment programs, rising drug abuse,
it's a mess.
remember gentleman's name,
the mayor of Baltimore Rhodes Scholar
what he,
Is he the guy wants to, deregulate heroin, or something?
what he wants to do is take all the money that, he gets for drug enforcement and use it for, drug education.
basically, attack the problem at the demand side.
Stop trying to attack supply to some extent makes sense and to some extent doesn't.
Switzerland tried grand experiment
they had this park where they were letting anybody use drugs as long as they stayed in the park
Jonathan, it's near and dear to your heart.
Buying a car is, something you're contemplating, I take it.
fantasizing about.
Can't do it right now.
Our situation is that we're a two car family
I have a mini van we bought a few years ago.
It's got a, five year loan,
that's still got a couple years to run
the car I get to drive is a, Nissan Sentra that's going to be ten years old next month
I think
((They get)),
about, sprucing that up in a couple years if I can.
buy next?
, since I just turned forty, I'm thinking about a forty year old man's car, real sporty
realistically with, the need to take the kids to school, probably have to have something that, wouldn't wined up putting their knees this their throat when they sat in the back seat. *
((Something a little)) seating room.
How about you?
I think the next car we get will probably be a ,
like Buicks.
We have a Buick Century now,
it's a nineteen eighty seven
whatever I get, I want to have, air bags, both driver's and passenger side and four door because it's much more convenient if you're carrying anybody rather than have them stoop down to get over,
I think the four door is probably a major requirement
other than that, reasonable cost and safety and, as much economy as you can get out of a car.
I'm not looking for one with a great big engine,
something that will carry it around careful, I guess is way to describe it.
Right now, we've got a V six
seems to be just fine.
I know out with some V eight now
I think that's probably a little over kill for this day and age.
I was surprised to hear that the V eights are coming back,
they've got some pretty powerful sixes.
V eights seem to be a return to the days of, ten or twelve miles a gallon.
drive a Ford truck.
like trucks because they're spacious,
it's handy to haul things.
it's not related to my business,
I just really use it, basically, for transportation,
there's so many occasions when I've had to move some members of the family or do this or that,
it's handy to have a truck and not have to borrow one.
Is, traction much of an issue for you up there.
(( )).
not really,
it's a two wheel drive truck
I figure if it's so bad that I need a four wheel drive, I probably ought to be home anyway .
Actually, pretty good way of looking at it,
had a small accident with our mini van
a few years ago.
A case where there was a, sort of freak ice storm
we weren't aware of it, and just slipped on some black ice and went into another car,
this is a rear wheel drive model.
we got some monster studded snow tires after that.
Haven't had any problems since.
is the mini van?
It's a Mazda.
I see.
we're pleased with it in terms of comfort, and, driveability.
Fuel economy isn't great, being a mini van,
it's real nice for carrying around our kids and others
it's, got some nice features in terms of being able to remove seats and flip them around
we've been able to do some real creative, load hauling when called upon.
One of my sons has Plymouth, van
or, that same type of thing, the Voyager, I guess
they have child that's five years old
it's really handy for hauling him around their stuff,
of course, as he gets friends, I'm sure that will be even handier.
I know if we had kids still at home, we'd certainly have to seriously consider a van just for their functional value.
I think that we're going to be, owning a mini van for some years to come.
Probably till the kids are out of, high school anyway.
What about, all wheel drive?
Is that something that you'd be interested in
is that,
I'd be satisfied with good front wheel drive car when it comes time to replace the Sentra.
even light as that is with, the small tires done pretty well
in winter,
again, like you, if conditions that bad, I probably don't want to be driving anyway.
I know I'd be happy with reasonable, four door.
again, got the same issue with getting kids into the,
What kind of crime do you think, is the most prevalent in our society?
boy, probably, robberies, people stealing from each other.
Such as New York City ?
Is that what happens up there a lot?
that's mostly what I hear, ((though)), is people getting ripped off and things getting stolen.
That's the most prevalent crime. add up after a while, I guess, insurance money and stuff like that, insurance costs.
everybody has to pay for it indirectly eventually.
I wonder drug use is a more prevalent crime, though, because, so many people use it,
even though just using is not really,
it is a crime,
that is a crime.
I guess, count all the little things that people do like,
speeding is a crime .
that's true.
I break that law every day .
was staying in the realm felonies versus misdemeanors
and, drug use,
drug use is probably a misdemeanor,
the subject of such a crime, such as stealing, or anything?
been caught with marijuana before,
I guess that was a crime.
I got a year's probation for that,
not that much.
it wasn't that
those aren't,
big a deal.
when I think of crime, I think of stuff affects other people like people getting, killed or raped.
I think rape is one of the worst crimes .
I think it is.
in some ways, it's almost worse than murder.
it's very degrading
hard on the people that were related to
it is a rather final solution, ((though)) .
a person's, gone, then it's,
the person that's been raped has to live with that the rest of their life,
do you think an appropriate, punishment for rape murder
or something like that.
a lot of the kind of premeditated murders, I think the death penalty is,
it's a pretty good thing.
I agree with that.
have that down here in Florida still.
electric chair
I think Virginia does, too, up here.
do they?
that's still an appropriate penalty to pay if they absolutely sure they got the right guy
I guess usually always sure they got the right guy,
I think the appeal process takes too long.
so do I.
think it no longer than a year.
the sooner,
a year's plenty of time
for something to come out, I guess.
Then, there's been guys in jail for six years
the other guy admits that he did it
they ,
it's like oops, .
the system isn't perfect,
it's run by a bunch of imperfect humans.
You do the best you can to make it perfect,
go out of your way to try real hard to make it perfect.
I think you have to accept some of the errors.
I think that murder itself would decrease significantly there was a credible punishment, for murderers.
I don't know if it would or not though.
don't think it's deterrent it is a good way for vengeance, for the relatives family members,
you know what I mean?
And society probably, too.
just general society to,
it kind of gets
it off their chest.
it does
it decreases the prison population.
which is
I know that
I mean,
lot of murders that you hear about are people that know each other.
kind of like crimes of passion and stuff like that.
I don't think you'll ever stop all that stuff dead,
y , you might be able to, stop people,
they're thinking about it,
they know they're going to get the chair if they get caught.
generally the crimes of passion and things like that, are not premeditated.
they can be,
usually they aren't.
They're spur of the moment
That's right.
the premeditated murders, the ones where the person plots and plans, when you catch individuals, I think that you end up with someone who's more dangerous to society
because they actually could harbor these thoughts for a long time.
they could do it again.
would have no problems doing it again.
That's right,
they didn't have any time doing it the first time.
I think locking them up for, fifty years doesn't do good because
it do ,
taxpayer, I'm going to pay, one and a,
Do you all have a budget?
we've been married for twenty three years
we have, three teenage daughters
they're very expensive.
have somewhat of, a system.
it's kind of hard to explain.
We've actually gone, just recently, to two checking accounts.
We always had just one.
now we are having two.
it's kind of hard to talk about this because to me it's very personal.
I have to be.
kind of the way I feel about it.
I usually,
my wife handles a lot of the day to day finances
of course, we're a lot of people.
We just scramble through month to month,
Do you have a two income family or one income?
we have a two income
She also works
enjoys it
she's good at it.
bad about procrastinating
one of these days I am going to do something about that ((I believe)) .
You know how that goes,
handles it pretty well.
your wife,
she writes all the checks, once a month.
career, related finance or accounting?
sort of on a peripheral.
She's, an annuity administrator
works for an insurance company.
she enjoys it.
She likes keeping track of all that stuff
that's sort of related to her field a little bit.
sort of.
experimented budgets, from time to time,
you have to keep up with them.
a lot of times, we kind of play it by ear.
We try to keep retirement and our savings kind of automated
we never see that money.
Just taken directly.
It's just taking it out,
We do the same thing.
kind of handy.
if you don't see it, you don't miss it (( )) .
You don't spend it.
you have something to take it out.
That's exactly what we've always done
where they match your funds,
save so much, then they will match it.
we've done that too.
my husband works for an insurance company
has now for about, oh gosh, how long has it been, ten years I guess.
he was with another company before that,
work also,
I only have a part time job
I get paid very little
I try to use that money for food
Jim gives me a certain amount money.
we just transfer it
into my account
I use that for food, household expenses,
I add my own check to that
with that I try and handle, some of the clothes that the girls need
and things like that,
the expenses that we need and have around the house.
sounds like you all pretty much do it the same we do.
Just kind of
play it by ear, but keep deductions
(( )).
a budget.
I mean he works it out every month
and breaks it all down.
I am given so much a month,
I am suppose to kind of get the food out of that.
I try not to,
ask for more.
I just try and make it on that.
Yeah .
I think when you go to the grocery store, go crazy
with all the choices that you have
really waste a lot of money that way.
how long have you been married?
about five years.
you're just really getting started .
do you have a family too?
I've got one little girl.
She's nineteen months.
She hasn't effected your budget yet really.
Not too bad.
Not like she will later on.
You will see that
all of a sudden to decide whether you are going to do, soccer and piano and all these choices that they have of activities to do
you really have to start saying okay, what can we afford
what can we do here
you have to really sit down and plan some more
I think when we were back at your age, we didn't have much of a budget
as the girls got older, I think did more and more of that.
more budgeting they got older.
what do you do?
Do you,
I work for, I'm an electronic technician.
I work university. Georgia Tech, research
I just,
a good friend that's about to move to Atlanta.
I guess we're not suppose to talk about those things.
I'd better get back to the subject.
I found, I feel a lot better.
we use to work out of one check book
it would be very hard for me because any idea how much money I was spending in one month.
Now, I exactly what I'm spending
it's so much easier,
((sort of the reason we're)) going through the school system
I seem to be younger than most people talk on this thing.
I didn't really perceive much problem with the school system.
However, when you compare it to school systems like they have in Japan and ad ,
you can compare just about to Japan
we look like don't have anything.
it seems to be not difficult enough for students. Not challenging enough. And just not generally competitive enough.
however, if it weren't for our needless, competition with Japan, I'd think the school works at a pretty good pace.
I don't know.
I haven't,
it's been, seventy nine since I was at school.
At high school.
I've seen things change.
I don't know if I've seen things change enough that I can actually,
I wasn't really listening to the world go by back then
it's hard to compare.
You know what I mean?
it seems like when in Chicago,
lived down here.
I hear the dropout rates from the schools,
I certainly see how much I pay in real estate taxes every year.
I begin to wonder if I'm really getting my money's worth.
seen so many different things. many different bad reports coming out of the school system
I recognize that there are good schools out there.
a good education because we,
continue to employ people.
I don't understand, I guess, why the schools seem to have such a high dropout rate in the big cities.
I don't pretend to understand that either.
I'm not quite sure that it's the kind of thing that ought to be blamed on the schools.
then, again, I'm not quite sure where the blame ought to be put. because dropout rate is, in those areas, w ,
it's high in those areas where also there's poverty crime.
they all seem to go together.
it seems like if you could eliminate one the parts of that circle, you have the dropout rate and crime and, general poverty kind of conditions, that things ought to get better.
they're all three social issues and could be addressed by the government in any ways . And clearly, to me, is a kind of government thing fix
it's just like, don't expect them to know which part is best to fix just like I don't know.
a complicated issue.
still don't think I would blame it directly on the school.
I don't know if I blame it on the school.
I think I blame it on a couple of different things.
I think I blame it on the school system.
that's I meant when I said the school.
I don't blame it on the teachers in the school.
think that,
I do know for a fact that some of the teachers that I know personally get paid an awful lot more than,
they do quite well for themselves .
that's odd because I don't think the teachers in my school district, were well paid.
Not all school districts are well paid.
there are some school districts out there that are very well paid.
I know one family that's got,
they're both teachers,
they both have,
second jobs
that they work in the afternoons.
They both work all summer full time.
from their teaching job alone, they pull in forty grand each.
I mean that family is making over a hundred grand.
I agree that teaching our kids is important.
However, these people who only work eight hours day at it, from seven to three,
they only work nine months a year
they get an awful lot of breaks in between
that's my tax dollars that I'm spending on that.
I don't even have kids .
that's true.
you can always play games with, talking about, whoa, look at this.
My tax dollars are paying for this.
This is wrong.
when you're w ,
there's really not much you can directly do about that.
I think there is a problem with the school system, it's been my perception that the school teachers and school officials are not that well, paid. That perhaps that might be one area could be improved.
w ,
you have other professional jobs
is a profession.
as a matter of fact, it's a pretty big influence ,
do privacy being invaded at any time?
one of the things I found to be, an invasion is when I pay for something with a credit card and they ask me to put my telephone number credit card bill.
yo ,
is something that is not required
in fact, it is actually prohibited
it doesn't stop doing it.
it's one of the things that it's used for, primarily, is for demographic, research.
to get your phone number on, lists for phone solicitations.
you can still,
I've always done that.
I started,
once I found out that that's really not necessary or legal then I just refuse
I say what are you going to do.
You going to say you don't want to sell me this product then
that's fine.
I'll just buy it somewhere else or not buy it at all.
ultimately, they say, no
you don't have to put it down .
really it's part of this compliance thing.
the thing I don't like,
I know that certain states actually sell lists like, motor vehicles.
That really burns me because, you're required.
You have to do that.
nowhere does it permission or not to sell your name or information regarding that to anyone.
I think that, one thing voluntarily give it because someone asks.
You can always refuse
it's another thing where it's required by law
they go ahead and take that information and sell it to somebody.
they have the right to do that.
I agree with you there.
That's something that, people have seen.
here's an easy way to make some money.
I don't know if that's been challenged in the courts or not.
heard, fairly recently, some talk about that my state.
the budget problems up here pretty tense.
people are looking for alternate ways of,
revenue is the, phrase they use.
they were talking about selling the D M V lists
there was consternation about that
the last I heard they'd backed down from that idea.
it really makes you wonder what other lists you're own that have been made, public that you,
don't know about.
that's easy.
Whenever you donate money to someone?
become, put on something like a sucker list
you start getting millions of calls or
y ,
it kind of makes you feel (( )) from doing it again.
Like, National Public Radio or any of public, stations,
I, I think I sent money once public, T V.
I started getting calls from all sorts of diseases and syndromes and
everything you could imagine.
it's like ,
it just started soon after I had done that one.
I just said terrible .
that's also happened to me where I've given money to my old Alma Mater in college.
it's one thing,
they don't sell the list.
the thing that makes me mad is, then they start getting, other people,
people do these phonathons
they call you up
they actually happen to be people who in your class or something like that.
they say, know you.
You, had, contributed x amount last year.
Can you do better this year?
hold on here.
How do you know that?
do you know that?
you even telling me this?
Is it any of your business?
it's one thing that I, and the college knows that
just our business.
There's no need for someone
who is soliciting should know at all.
that was very offensive too.
Last year, the, Lotus Development Company, the,
company that puts out One, Two, Three
Right .
was planning on marketing a, C D Rom with people's names sorted by number of different criteria.
One way or another we're now recording.
Home repair.
You were helping your parents.
I still am really.
They're, sort of remodeling a house out in downtown Atlanta, in Candler Park.
we've done lots to it.
We've taken out the glass and most of the windows and the sashes and replaced them.
you're remodeling?
How about you?
I live in an apartment now.
went to Massachusetts
I went with a friend of mine
we undertook a building house.
this was Lincoln log house where you have the wall partitions
it's preconstructed you might say.
huh .
an empty lot with,
trees and stuff on it
we had to cut them, down and clear the lot.
We had to call in the excavators and have them dig the basement.
Pour the basement and, went from the ground up.
one of our main problems was,
in Massachusetts, I thought I was going to,
it was fun time
I thought, gosh, summer time,
all it ever did was rain and thunder storms .
one thing is that we were going to pour the basement foundation.
we're in the process
it started pouring down rain.
I guess we had most of it done
the end was result,
what happened was that wa , a lot of water settled on the top
it really didn't give a very good finish
some of the,
it was sort of sandy and
and not, a very good finish.
it's only the basement floor
it was okay.
it kept us pretty busy.
It was only,
there was, me and my friend
we just had two helpers and
sort of family type,
it wasn't, a commercial project or something.
It was sort of just, bro , my brother and maybe, my cousin's coming over today to help us do that
kind of thing. So that the scheduling and everything was kind of hectic sometimes.
materials coming in
hopping around pretty good.
overall, we got it done
it's a three bedroom, two bath house
it's pretty neat.
what was it for?
You just,
it was, for my friend's parents.
They had some property there
they'd lived in old,
it's sort of like a farm, you might say.
they live in this old house
for something like thirty years or something.
his mom just wanted new house.
that has been her dream.
we did that.
she was really pleased with it.
it came
That's great.
really great
is it that the weather in Atlanta that gets very hot.
Where you live it gets very hot?
it does.
that's why you,
the windows what type of windows are you putting in?
the windows are something that is conducive to temperature changes in, the solar game?
Have you,
are you putting in triple glaze or double glaze or,
went into a building supply store and bought plate glass.
My parents do not have a whole lot of money to put into it.
see in a lot of the windows?
eighty years old
it's had several owners and stuff
they have put plastic, Plexiglas kind of stuff in some of the windows.
you have the sash windows in?
go up and down?
I see.
we wanted to get all new stuff in there.
there's a problem with those.
Those are,
they usually most of the time don't open very well .
Ours didn't .
the ones that would open, wouldn't want to stay open .
They wanted
to slam shut.
they, they,
a lot of vibration
it causes the glass to crack
a never ending problem.
been in any really home repair things lately.
being a former drug user .
I guess I have to say at this point, that I do approve of it.
because I know that, in using drugs I was not a good employee.
I can see from the company's standpoint that there,
whenever you are an employee of the company, you are using it's assets,
you are also under their liability, under the Workmen's Comp.
on my job we had a lot of Workmen's Comp cases
Where do you work?
I work for a tire company
Modern Tire.
it's also a retreading plant,
that's where most of our, injuries occur.
what we do is we'll have a drug test break or a man, has an accident.
Then he's automatically, given a drug test.
Do they do it, within hours of the accident,
is it?
when he goes to the doctor the first time.
that kind of,
I don't know if it's been a deterrent or not, because we have, just started using it
for the past year or so.
we've let some people go, that found that drugs were used in their system.
I don't know how T E C would handle it.
They haven't pursued it,
if there's some, problem I know,
there was one guy that we tested for preemployment for drugs who absolutely swore up and down that it showed that he was using amphetamines,
he went to separate drug
testing firm,
they showed it negative.
I think the tests themselves are not really that
cut and dried,
I think that's probably true, too.
that's sort of scary.
I also had a friend who was just around some people that were smoking cocaine.
he tested positive on cocaine.
then you always wonder, is he just saying that .
a bad situation.
most companies now, as far as entry,
exams require that.
I think they should.
I'm a T I employee
really gung ho for it.
In fact I,
some of the places now, like I B M don't allow them smoking,
the plant.
have designated smoking areas.
I work in sort of a building not really,
it's on the campus of the T I facility,
it's a little bit, separated.
We lease the building.
a factory environment.
have designated smoking,
it's just wide open,
it's not ventilated properly
I think that's bad.
as far as the drugs, being in the factory kind of environment that way
definite, I think it's essential.
because you're endangering everybody's lives if you
if it's something like that.
In fact we've had the policy on just the random testing now
for a couple years,
was giving my boss a hard time because I kept waiting for my name to up,
called me,
they never,
finally, the day we declared war was my time .
You're kidding .
No .
my boss gone for about three times, I think.
I told him he's obviously in a high risk group .
The executives, right?
of course, they did specifically single them out when we started,
that they were going to do all them first.
The executives?
Wouldn't that be awful if you were
Which I thought was interesting .
if you were using,
lose your job and everything.
I can't believe I was so brazen before.
a former drug user,
I, I accepted Christ as my Lord and Savior,
I don't use drugs any more.
what kind of drugs did you use, if you don't mind?
marijuana, cocaine and amphetamines.
huh .
all on the job, too.
it had gotten that bad.
it's really lucky that you got away from that.
Cause that's really,
life is so much more enjoyable.
downward spiral.
I was losing jobs just from doing a poor job,
there's all kinds of drawbacks, much less the drug testing.
Just life in general.
that's right.
I'm definitely for it.
want to think you're working with people who are not only putting out their fair share,
That's right.
but that are not endangering your life,
in some cases
my husband, several years back, worked for Motorola.
they had,
it was a chemical handling type.
some serious chemicals out there
they have emergency shower where you just run in there and strip off and dump water, that kind of thing.
they had people out there using all sorts of drugs handling those chemicals.
my gosh.
I think some like that, it should be mandatory
on a greater frequency than maybe,
just, paper pushers I am.
I would think there would be.
you'd think so
they weren't?
I don't know if they do it till yet.
Isn't that awful.
when he was at,
course now it's been years now, because they had designated smoking
type stuff, at T I.
I forgot what,
I guess it was eighty four, eighty five
something like that.
had no testing whatsoever.
that's scary .
That reminds me of,
I have a friend who was telling me about her brother who gets high all the time,
I have just casually asked her what he did for a living.
she said, he's the supervisor of this chemical land fill,
where they go and dump all this toxic stuff.
I just, went, where? .
should we move?
Let me move as far away as possible.
That's awful.
I'm proud, though, I grew up in the sixties,
back then it was popular
people have really about drugs
they really have a good campaign for the young people,
They know it's not smart,
I guess it was just a generational thing.
peer group is the other way now instead of,
That's right,
that's good.
That's the best way to stop it.
really is.
I think we did it.
it's good talking to you.
I enjoyed talking to you, Cathy.
bye bye .
are you on any kind of, regular exercise plan?
I'm, I, I do aerobics, step classes and,
Step classes?
toning classes,
What's that?
a new, form I think,
it's like low impact aerobics
it ...
instead of hopping and jumping you just step
have a step
you literally step up on the step and move your arms,
it's, it's new,
it's fun.
I probably couldn't do that because of my knee .
bad knee .
I do toning a lot and, some,
every once in a while I play tennis,
I'm not too great at it
try to play, .
kind of gotten out of the habit myself,
I guess what I do now is I play softball,
right now,
that's about,
right now I'm on two teams
it's four nights a week.
Gosh .
I enjoy it
as far as,
instead of having to join a health club and make myself go out there,
I went and bought a weight bench, and don't ever hardly use it.
ye ,
I need to make myself do that.
I slacked off a little because of,
I'm about to graduate from college
this past couple months have been really hectic
I haven't really gone,
(( I've really been)) faithful these past two months of going to the health club and working out
What school you going to?
I'm at East Carolina.
Oh .
my step classes and toning is about the only thing
Is that weights?
It's, isolated movements for
you can do with,
Isometrics, stuff like that.
if you wanted to
you leave out of there
usually the next morning, if you haven't done it in a while, you wake up the next morning
you're like, no,
what did I do to myself
your whole body aches,
I know I'm looking forward to getting back into getting into shape,
I feel like I'm out of shape
I feel guilty for not going,
because I'm so used to going for, three or four years now.
stayed in pretty good shape during school.
I played baseball,
all the way through
working out six hours a day, usually six or seven days a week that kind of,
kept us all in pretty good shape, .
since I got out of school, just jumped right into the job
I guess the job that I'm in it's stuff to stay on any kind of a regular schedule. *
Because I work some weird hours and do some traveling.
I walk a lot because, being school we,
I don't know if your campus was anything like ours,
our parking lot's in one end campus
are all at the other end,
((You ut ,))
I didn't have, much of a problem
guess I went to a small Baptist school
we had about, when I was there, maybe thirteen hundred people.
that's if ...
it's pretty small.
I usually get in at least a couple of miles at work just walking around the plant.
on the second story apartments
I walk up and down stairs all day long,
we've got a one story house now
I guess I push the lawn mower around
Yeah .
fairly regular .
((That's one of the exercise, now)).
would like to start running.
I've never been much of a runner
I want to start,
I want to run
know if I'll be able do it.
just, because don't like to or you won't be able to.
afraid I won't be able to.
if you do,
I ((wish I'd))
if you do aerobics you shouldn't have any problem running.
I hope not.
our bike occasionally but again not nearly often enough .
I don't even own a bike,
I think the last time I was on a bike when I was about twelve,
I don't know,
I'd be I probably forgot how to ride a bike,
you can't forget how to ride a bike.
I guess that's about the only form,
I'm trying to think other things that I do that will be considered exercise, ,
there are things I should do.
I know ((it ju ,))
when I was going to,
went to a junior college for a couple of years and played baseball and then transferred,
when we were at this junior college, our coach,
one semester the whole team was required to take aerobics
the next semester they were required to do weight lifting.
it was a regular,
we had it for course credit,
still, it was pretty high impact stuff, .
Those aerobic classes tough high impact.
Definitely tough classes.
most of the guys were all in one class
she'd kind of lay it on occasionally, .
First at eight, I think we had
eight o'clock in the morning, was our class.
Wake up.
now they have exercise bands now that are better that you can use for toning instead of using a weight,
you have bands,
I don't know,
if you've seen them,
they're ...
I think my wife has some.
they're, they're weird.
they're just made of, I guess it's different kinds of rubber,
they get,
Or sand even some of them,
they're elastic
I guess it wouldn't be sand.
there's some that, the different colors denotes I guess they are and how easy they are to move.
purple, gray, and, green.
some of them are real short
they're the ones that are the tough ones to use,
those classes enjoy.
I think, with the aerobic classes you have to get an instructor that's fun.
If you don't have one that's fun, and what she's doing, the class is not going to get out, what they should get out of the class.
if the,
are you going to get into instructing?
what are you studying?
I'm an interior design major, .
aerobic instructor type field.
I could never do that I don't think, .
I'd rather just be the student, .
Occasionally I do the weights at the health club but low weights just ...
some of the Nautilus equipment that I started seeing at the one that we used to go to was really interesting,
they really know how to isolate each of the different muscle groups,
with those things
man, they are,
I don't know
to me that was just too much of a hassle to get all geared up and take the time to drive over there,
and workout and then drive back .
just noticed at our health club they ((will put on))
you set a speed on it and the weight
makes you do it.
it tells you
if you're going too slow it will say, my grandmother could do this faster than you.
stuff like, a turtle goes faster
it tells it
the whole place can hear what this machine is telling you.
A little negative reinforcement there while you're going.
Yeah .
just I've never used those machines
I just use the regular machines and the free weights, like little five pound hand weights and eight pound hand weights.
((Just)) to do, some bicep, tricep exercises.
Sit ups, of course.
, yeah,
where I'm really starting to get noticeable,
I'm just getting real soft in the middle.
I think that's, number one problem with everyone .
I haven't really started to put on a lot of weight
guess I probably put on about pounds, since I stopped playing, which was about four years ago.
just soft
I'm sure I don't have near the endurance that I did, .
. Yeah.
I keep saying I intend to get back into it.
, I just need to, put the old nose to the grindstone,
I guess at that point it would turn into a task, ,
I don't consider it fun doing that,
I plan on getting back, once I graduate next weekend.
Next weekend?
Next weekend.
All right.
one week, .
Then I plan to get right back into it.
does a lot for you I think.
Makes you feel a lot better.
question end result is great
I enjoyed,
when I was playing ball we could run all day and not be tired, .
you feel so much better,
about yourself.
Just ((that)), you don't feel guilty when you eat that cake after dinner, .
I still don't,
That's a problem.
good luck on your graduation and your ...
All righty,
thank you.
It was nice talking to you.
you too.
bye bye.
ing seems to be topic that's going to probably take about a generation to, catch on, it seems, or maybe a generation to two .
we may have to do it out of necessity as far as moving that time schedule up.
it does seem to be a lot of habits to break.
I, wasn't raised as a kid on it,
my kids are
tended to want to grab the aluminum cans when that was one of the first things to do,
we were doing all right there until, the price dropped out
they weren't worth anything anymore.
we ,
it took us, almost a year to get a garbage sack full.
We just don't drink that many.
as far as at home use, we'll pick up a six pack every once in a while or for whatever occasion of Doctor Pepper or something
by the time we gathered up enough crushed cans to take it in,
at the time it was still, about forty or fifty cents a pound,
we came out with about a dollar ,
it just really wasn't worth it.
a lot of hassle all year round
cans laying,
of course to them a dollar was a dollar at four and five years old.
a big deal,
we decided it wasn't worth us keeping it
T I started keeping up with, cans there,
occasionally I'll bring whatever I've got laying around the car or the like and throw them in there.
Least it gets back into the system,
as far as a habit at the house, I haven't started on anything other than just whatever the city wants to pick up.
Have you all got the individual containers yet?
I read in the paper this week where maybe,
I don't know if it
I guess maybe this week someone may start getting them if the truck that picks them up is outfitted in time.
should be starting, I would stay probably in the next month everything goes that ,
I'm not sure all what we're going to have to do, whether we have three separate containers,
I really don't understand that part on what they've told you to separate everything.
it seemed like,
I recall, it's been a long time.
They're way behind schedule on that particular part of it.
They were fine on the
seems like they said they were just going to have a bin
all different types would go in there
that they would sort it as
as needed.
seemed that there was,
at the time anyway, the thinking was that there was too much not getting sorted properly and that the collection sites where everything's clearly labeled and people that happen to go to that kind of trouble to do it, happen to do it pretty well, those are okay to have the general public doing the sorting.
when it comes down to just general purpose trash, that all the houses,
the success rate of getting it sorted properly seemed to be poor,
they felt that having one guy just sit there and run through it real quick was better
having a household try it.
don't know,
that sounds like an awful lot of labor to sort the entire week's worth of trash for a house.
it would get messy, too.
I know other places when they recycle, they have to, wash out their glass jars and
whatnot. which we're not in the habit of doing.
That's true.
I was brought up, long time ago, that they didn't even have cans.
They had bottles
you'd return them to the
the grocery store
you'd get our money back
was all well and good.
They don't seem to still be doing that.
If they could just eliminate the cans and use glass,
I guess this day and age
they don't.
They don't do that.
We live next to a set of railroad tracks
it seemed to be a very popular thing for people driving by that highway there, by our tracks to throw the bottles at the tracks and try to crash,
break them,
they weren't that successful,
there were a lot of bottles to be returned
we just walk about a half a mile in each direction and gathered up enough to buy whatever we wanted
for the day
they, p ,
think kids don't appreciate, maybe the value of money, that it's so little that they don't care,
they can get more somewhere else.
just a little bit of begging will ,
for a good,
the nickels, the dimes or what, I suppose it might be quarters, fifty cent pieces in these days, that they would get, just don't seem care much about a small amount of money.
I wonder,
did buy a can crusher
we are crushing cans
when we buy the soda when it's on sale for ninety nine cents,
I would say
in the last three years, we've probably used a lot more cans than ever before.
it was just easier to do that than to open a large liter bottle and then have it go flat.
that's the main reason into cans at this point rather than the liter bottles .
Where do you take your cans?
as you say, it takes a while to build it up.
Since we've had the crusher all summer, just now maybe have a bag full that we haven't ta ,
I think the kids, when we were on vacation, they said they did take them to recycling place, probably at one of the li ,
Hello, Lynn.
Do you have any pets?
I have a dog and cat now.
what are their names?
Tibby and Liberty.
Which is the dog and which is the cat?
Tibby is the dog
Liberty is the cat.
wife and I, two cats.
one's real nice,
the other one is a,
she's pretty wild.
. Ours are pretty calm.
are they, just house pets?
what ours are too.
Our cat we got from the pound she was going to be put to sleep.
that's why we call her Liberty.
that's a story.
Do you want to hear about my other animals I've had?
I've had a skunk
I've had a Burmese python,
I've had rats,
I've had mice
let's see,
I've had gerbils,
a son, that was an animal lover.
at one point I had a snake, skunk, dog and cat running loose in the house.
the skunk, was it kind of like a cat to have around the house?
it was litter trained
we had it perfumed
it was very aggressive.
of them, dog, cat and skunk, used to chase each other all through the house.
the skunk.
the only thing we have with the skunk, he was very, very protective of his territory
being the sofa and the blanket on the sofa.
Nobody came near it when he was there.
a dog one time,
he chased skunk and got sprayed
give him a juice bath, and, get him cleaned up,
would still back up to the dog or cat when he got mad and try to perfume them,
the glands had been removed
I suppose it was still in the instinct of them to
to back up and get ready.
One other question we had is, Why do you have pets? *
why, I don't know,
think they're kind of nice to have,
they're kind of, just relaxing pet and to,
I don't know,
when they sit up on your lap and stuff like that, just kind of enjoyable to, have
I don't know,
something giving you some affection as well.
I always said if I di ,
do you think?
I always said if I died I'd come back as a dog .
That'd be the best way to be.
do you like big dogs or
or little dogs?
we had a German Shepherd
he had dysplasia
he had it for about three or four years where we just about had to lift him and carry him every place he went.
when he died, we got a little one.
our shepherd was almost thirteen years old,
it just, was almost cruel
almost cruel for him walk.
couldn't get up,
he couldn't walk,
he was a hundred and twenty pounds,
it was a chore.
we said the next time around we'd get something little that if
something happened, it would be easier to carry.
we've had three cats in our married life,
we've got a calico now.
we've got a calico cat too.
Do you?
nice one.
used to live in an apartment
our cats never went outside,
the neighbors used to let their dogs out,
our neighbors were, I don't know, kind of slimy,
our cats wound up getting fleas, from the apartment that we were in
flea bath them
an experience that they didn't enjoy at all.
don't even talk to me,
was single
I had gone away for the weekend,
my husband, was to keep my cat,
he let her out,
my house was loaded with fleas,
you walked in
your legs were just black.
we had such a time, and never got the cat back.
I found it, in the street.
I was a social worker at the time, and found it,
Now is it Stacy?
I'm sorry.
if you were going to have a dinner party, what would you make?
let's see,
I like seafood.
let's see,
shrimp, steamed with maybe herbs.
spicy lobster with
That sounds good.
the steamed shellfish you said?
what would that be like, a clam or,
I think hors d'oeuvres are good, too.
that way, you can have a variety.
if you have dinner party and you're going to serve, seafood for supper, what type of, hors d'oeuvres would you serve prior to the meal?
cheeses or fruits or vegetables or,
fresh vegetables would be good
Probably not nachos and dip,
be appropriate to, drink when you have the hors d'oeuvres?
when you serve the meal, what type of wine would you have with seafood?
all these hard questions .
what, white wine?
That would be my guess.
I'm not really a drinker,
know a lot about that.
Something sweet?
chocolate, something chocolate.
You must like chocolate.
let's see.
Usually when we have a dinner party, like to grill.
you do?
we might have some cocktails ahead of time and maybe dip, some cheese.
One of our favorites is, to take some, let's see Philadelphia cream cheese I think, A is that what comes in
those little blocks?
And pour cocktail sauce over the top of it and then get these little canned shrimp and, wash them and cool them and then dump them in the, sauce and then take crackers
you just dip the cracker in the sauce with the clams and the cream cheese
you have a real nice dip that goes good with a cocktail.
I like to barbecue, steaks or pork chops.
baked potatoes with them
and a salad
I don't know what we usually have for dessert.
Cake sometimes,
that's what we would do for a dinner party, I guess.
That sounds good, too.
that's more for when friends come
I wouldn't be the big, snotty kind.
I just started,
I just really started, learning about that
I bought a Martha Stewart,
I don't know if you've heard of her.
Her cookbook
she talks about catering and, all that and the parties, different types of foods.
do you work setting where you, are in the food business?
my father owns a restaurant.
it's not really anything, that I want to,
it's not the same .
Is it in Dallas?
it's in Lewisville.
all right.
you graduated from which high school?
that's a public school or private?
That's public.
I have to get to know this area a little better, I guess.
is your father's cafe, one that you could cater out of?
huh, *
it's not.
he's not interested in letting his twenty one year old daughter experiment with it probably.
let's see,
what else for catering.
Let's see,
what about Hawaiian luau.
that would be good.
Could have, fruits pineapple,
let's see,
you could actually go with, a chicken if you wanted to.
decorating your food is, really,
we have a Sheltie Collie, a miniature Sheltie.
Do you?
It's six months old,
we're try ,
we live in an apartment,
we don't have a yard,
it has to stay inside
we're having a difficult time trying to train it.
How old is it?
It's about six months.
you're in the roughest stages of pet
ownership, I think.
they're supposed to be real intelligent dogs,
I guess one, one of them, every once in a while, you get one that's not so intelligent
because this one, it.
know if that has anything to do with the intelligence, really, the training bit,
I've had dogs through the years.
Right now I've got two, and three cats,
my son and daughter in law have kind of a Sheltie mix,
we watched it this summer for two to three months,
it wasn't trained quite fully either
it was a sweet and an intelligent dog.
what's the best method?
I don't know.
old fashioned,
when I got dogs, did something I hollered at them and threw them outside.
They say that's not the way to do it now.
You're just supposed to
Stand outside with them until they.
put them outside, I guess. Unless you them in the act.
we're hardly ever at home,
kind of difficult,
spank it or scare it, or anything like that,
you don't want to do that,
try to take it,
frustrating when you take it outside
it just want to sniff around?
it runs right inside
it does it. *
Does it just want to sniff around and play when it's outside?
a lot of times,
it won't it's little job outside
it comes inside.
Have you praised it and given it a treat maybe when it does something outside?
we've tried that,
there's certain spots in the house where he likes to
he chews on plants and all that,
that's natural
That's nothing,
for a little puppy.
it'll, it'll catch on pretty soon, bet you.
have a Golden Retriever,
she's gone the other way,
because she's so old, she doesn't have much control
we're battling with that problem
that's sad.
she still feels good.
she can't hear worth a darn or see very well,
she's got a great appetite,
she knows we're there,
by smell.
How old is it?
She'll be sixteen in May.
that's sad.
we can't bear to do anything because
of course not.
she's been our friend for all these years,
I couldn't.
we're putting up with all her accidents,
the la ,
two nights ago, she had diarrhea,
that was a bad one.
I think we're buying a carpet shampooer this weekend .
That is really sad.
the deal,
we're trying to take it on walks now,
we can't because it's not accustomed to being on a leash
really feels like it's being killed or something when you try to, tug on it to walk it.
it just goes like a mad dog,
it just jumps up and down and starts yapping,
Does it,
not even close to even
being trained on a leash.
maybe it signed up this spring or summer for some of the dog obedience classes.
things about some of those,
they sometimes their license or whatever
they treat them bad.
to the junior college, Richland
we took,
daughter was living at home then,
she took over there
it's a pretty good class,
they did pretty good, except this dog is,
she's just pretty,
she's not smart .
she didn't learn a lot,
calmed her down a little bit,
she's used to being around other dogs now.
How long did it take?
I think it was a six week program.
Every, what?
I think it was one night a week
for six weeks,
it was a group class, outside.
It was fairly reasonable, too.
Sheltie Collies are, timid,
they don't really,
unless they get used to something, they're really nervous
a high strung dog aren't they?
if they're not accustomed to something, really scared.
friend has a,
I guess we're going to describe, job benefits,
what do you think, next to salary do you rank, is the most important job benefits?
I would say the medical, group insurance area
as far as, covering medical costs for yourself or family members.
does your company have good benefits regard?
I think,
I work for a public school
it's different than a company where most companies fund almost the entire thing,
where the school district does, the employee must pick up a greater figure in the way of, costs.
overall, I've been pleased with it over the years.
I think the biggest frustration is because of the cost of insurance going up every year, our district has had to companies,
now we're on a managed care thing, which has stressed a lot of people out
although it has not disturbed me any.
I see.
How about yourself?
my medical coverage is with an H M O
on a health clinic,
it seems to be a good way to maintain costs and still provide a good amount of coverage.
Our district did that for the ninety one and the ninety
I was in the H M O,
I was because same doctor, agreed to be in it for,
they usually sign a contract or something
I did have surgery last summer
I paid ten dollars when I went to see him that first day,
I've never seen another bill,
I have to say it really works.
again, I was fortunate because my doctor agreed to be in it.
if you've been going to a doctor for, ten years or something and he elects not to join, it can be very stressful for
those people.
That's right,
fairly young myself,
I've only been,
when I first started working which,
three years ago is when I first got into full time employment
at that time I immediately joined the H M O,
I never really,
the only doctor kind of consistently had has been through the H M O,
for me it's worked out real good.
if you, have a family everybody's gone to different doctors, it is hard to give up somebody who you feel knows you and your body and just has, all the medical history
you feel comfortable with it.
sure it would be very stressful
my husband and I have just elected that if that happens, I will go and just pay.
You can continue to go to your own doctor
your benefits are not as, good,
mentioned you work for a school system.
I work for, Georgia Tech in the
all right.
research branch,
I guess another one I rank up there high is the, kind of job flexibility and time off, I enjoy as a benefit.
I do too.
Are you talking about Spring Break
getting a lot of breaks
between quarters and that, and having a lot of vacation.
I don't think most of our teachers,
I'm not a teacher,
I am a secretarial executive assistant,
I don't think the teachers could stand the stress year long
It is just, Texas has really,
they want everybody educated, no matter what it costs,
would be just,
we all look forward to,
in two weeks we have Spring Break,
I don't know who looks forward to it more, the students or the teachers and the staff.
What do you do there?
I'm not actually on the teaching faculty,
we have a large research organization associated with the university,
that's who I work with.
we're given, a good bit of flexibility in what we do.
We can kind of pursue our own interests in terms of the research areas that we study.
that's good.
I would think that that type of employment, one day you might be really tuned in and the next day, a little luke warm or something
it's good that they allow you that.
as I say, the schools,
now we do have to work, the day,
we do get many days off,
we all look forward to it.
That's the only reason I work there, is that my children now have graduated from college
at the
time, I worked there because my hours and days were the same as theirs
I've just continued to, stay there (( )).
any things you'd like to see changed in terms of benefits?
I guess it took,
I guess the recording has started now.
have you ever served on a jury?
I served,
I was in the Air Force, and served on a court martial, board a couple of times, which is very similar to a jury.
A lot of the same rules apply.
Have you ever served on one?
I finally served on one last year.
I've, been voting for years,
I couldn't figure out why I hadn't been called yet
I finally was.
it was an interesting experience.
I was kind of boring. *
Was it civil or criminal?
it was,
A grand jury or,
it was, it was municipal court
it was a combination of,
I was in the pool for a couple of weeks
I see.
it was a combination of criminal and civil,
they had,
most of the time spent sitting around in the jury room and getting to know the other potential jurors
it was always exciting when we got called to go, because then we thought we might be able to do something else besides, just sit in the jury room.
the judge, hand down sentences
did you folks do that?
the judge did.
had a hard time getting seated on a jury.
I kept getting,
I'd be questioned, for empaneling the jury,
they kept, dismissing me.
Course they don't have to give a reason,
it's just
whether the prosecutor or the defense attorney feels like,
they want to get the best, mix for their case,
they ask all kinds of wild questions.
that's a science in itself.
I kept getting called up for drunk driving questions,
I think part of it was like the fact that I don't drink any more.
I see.
Because you'd probably be, too puritanical
that was
(( )).
probably it,
in my case I might have been more, sympathetic with the person who got caught,
I don't know.
the, sentences that the judge handed out what you thought to be fair,
if you were deciding, do you think that they would have been different.
I was for any sentencing.
I finally got empaneled on one case, on my next to the last day,
we got into the, jury room to, decide the case,
there was one guy on the jury who announced to everybody that he didn't need to deliberate, because he'd already decided that the guy was, not guilty,
he would never vote for guilty.
they appointed me foreman
I, didn't think that, going in without deliberating allowed us to reach a verdict,
I told the judge that we unable to reach a verdict because we couldn't get one member of the jury to deliberate.
the whole thing had to be tried over again.
I bet that made him happy.
I don't know,
I didn't like not being able to deliberate.
I wanted to vote guilty for the guy,
the other people were kind of mixed
the guy had to go through the whole thing all over again.
Cost him a lot of money,
I'm sure.
how many members were on the jury?
Was it a six or twelve member jury?
it must have been six.
That's kind of curious to me.
I didn't realize until the, Wayne Kennedy Smith trial, a few months ago that they had six member juries.
I thought that it was always men tried and true, so to speak.
apparently for crimes, it's permissible to have six people sit in judgment.
I know on a ,
getting to this unanimous thing, whether, a jury should be unanimous in a court martial case it doesn't require the jury to be unanimous.
It's a simple majority, rules.
Well, let's
(( )).
is it on, capital crimes that they have to be unanimous
Probably on capital,
I don't know,
the two that I were on had to do with drugs
we were, unanimous is acquitting the person, even though we gut felt that the individuals were both guilty just
the government really failed to prove its case,
being fair to the person, if the government doesn't prove its case, no matter how you feel, you have to go by what's offered as proof,
we had to acquit him in both cases.
it was too circumstantial?
it was, in some of the critical things, like at one time in one of the cases had videotaped this person,
something happened to the camera and the tape and
all they could do was testify,
Do you ever think that there's a crime that's just so heinous and so bad that the person who commits this crime just doesn't deserve to live anymore?
That's a good question.
where I would have said, no, that no one would deserve to die a crime that he committed.
since I've become a parent and since I've seen, things like Jeffrey ((Dahlmer)), I really have to question that.
I can't conceive of someone being that brutal to that many other people.
try and figure out what would be a suitable punishment.
Of the statements made by people against death penalty, like the statement made by Cuomo.
Cuomo I believe is,
governor of New York
he's, against the death penalty.
he said that want seriously hurt or if not kill someone they did something to his wife.
that there would be people around him who would, keep him from things.
question of gut reactions to something like that versus an intelligent reason response.
that was the thing that, killed Dukakis back, four years ago when someone asked him a similar question
thought for a second and gave a thoughtful well reasoned reply when, people wanted to see if he was going to go for an emotion
a gut level reaction.
I think that the people who are strongly in favor of the death penalty are really working from that gut level.
whether it be a biblical force, the eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, a life for a type logic or just, some sort of anger at up in federal pens for the rest of their life, while we foot the bill.
I think people working at that from more of gut reaction than reason humane one.
I don't think the decisions that are going to be made penalty until we decide what our prison system is intended to do.
Are they reformatories, where we're trying to take people who can't survive aren't conforming enough to society so we work well together.
Or are they,
is it a penal institution?
is it designed for punishment?
the death penalty surely fits in well a penal situation where you're trying to punishment.
perhaps not in the manner that we do it
theory it fits in.
in a reformatory,
put someone to death you obviously,
can't reform them.
That's true.
other argument is that the death penalty is a deterrent
I really don't, agree with that.
I don't think anyone who would commit crime that would get them the death penalty would stop at the moment and say, I was about to kill and dismember this person
if they catch me they're going to kill me
I better not do it.
don't think it works that way.
I don't think it's done.
I don't think we run it as a deterrent.
people say that,
if it was really a deterrent, I think like horse thieves in the old west,
they saw other horse thieves hanging by the necks
every once in a while.
seriously going to be a I would think that it would be public.
I don't think it would be this private thing because sees it.
If someone ever,
like say some young kids or something like that that might be inclined more towards a life of crime, had to sit and watch see a guy burn something or shot by a firing squad or something like that.
I would think you'd make a bigger impact on their life rather than, telling them that protestors out here at the,
don't know if that would really work that way or not.
there's a lot of violence,
are you working right now?
I am.
I'm working in the computer science department here
at C M U.
work do you do?
I'm doing basically design
work and, implementation work group
Wh ,
is that how you heard about this thing? .
actually through electronic mail.
Me too.
I work at, the Georgia Tech Research Institute.
I'm a co op student
I work and go to school about halftime.
I really don't have any job benefits to speak of.
We're kind of,
I don't know,
they just kind of forget us on that end.
We don't really have any vacation or, sick days or health care or anything really
it's pretty fair they've got you slaving away,
this point .
What about you?
I'm research stuff here now
have, okay, benefits package.
It's not quite as good as industry
one of the significant, benefits here is that you can take, up to two courses a semester,
they pay for
pay for the classes.
((Carnegie Mellon)) that works out to be, benefit.
they do that I think if you're, research (( )) here
I know of some of the people that have gotten their masters
I think that, they might, pay for that.
Pay for the classes and stuff
I know decrease how many hours you work by (( )) kind of percentage.
they'll let you work halftime finish,
If you want to,
you want to,
do it quickly.
They'll let you work, decrease your number of hours by any percentage about so if you want to get your masters
I think of course pay raise due
that will probably help out.
don't know terms of other things, other benefits other than sort of monetary
Do you get any kind of health care type stuff?
We have to contribute a certain amount, to it.
it's kind of split between C M U and,
and, the employee.
I think,
important, part of it there because can be really expensive if you ever have any health problems.
I'm still covered my dad's, health plan
it would definitely be something to look into once I get my own.
like everywhere else,
here in Pittsburgh the health care, rates going up pretty quickly.
That's a whole other topic
((They have)).
to begin with too
I really agree that, pretty important.
only real, benefit I guess you could say besides
I'm learning and stuff because,
I'm school.
some ((weird law)) where, student employees working for the government
huh .
don't have to pay Social Security tax.
Oh .
Now that's a big win.
that's about,
five percent right there
That's about the only real bonus
to take that into consideration when I evaluate how much I get paid ((real,)) because if I was working somewhere else I'd have to, pay an extra five percent,
or so.
I figured for
they've just raised the, income caps on Social Security to the point where
well off before you stop paying
paying that as well.
if you could call it a benefit that C M U, i ,
the other thing that they allow you to do here while you are working consult for, other companies.
kind of helps out in terms of,
keeping up to date with contacts in industry.
in case,
(( )) help a lot.
in case you ever need to bail out .
here it's like,
we pretty much work from project to project different sponsors.
a whole lot of, funded research from,
Type of music is hot down in Texas?
I don't know exactly what's hot down in Texas.
I know what's hot down here with me,
that's about all I can feel apt to discuss with you since I just know,
I don't ever listen to the radio
that's usually what's hot around here
what kind of music do you like?
mostly folk music.
Folk music.
I find myself, listening to a lot of, either old timer or New England, dance bands as well as, just more popular folk music and new artists coming up.
we're on totally different wavelengths.
I'm more, old rock and roll, some heavy metal rock and roll type
Van Halen, that kind of thing.
what about, classic rock type stations.
I don't listen to the radio at all.
We live in a fairly small town,
classic rock for me is what I have, which is Doors, Eagles, Jimmy Hendrix.
some of the older Eagles stuff was good.
didn't like,
they started getting a little more,
the type of music, at least to me, like it's only sounds good at a high volumes
I don't like listening at high volumes.
some of their older was, quite enjoyable to me.
California and that era.
something even sound good loud really.
anything new you like coming out now, other than folk music, some I might know of.
I don't know any folk music at all.
down in Texas, country every now and then.
I'm sure there's a lot of that down there.
more than I can stand down here.
don't care for it at all, that Texas twang or whatever you want to call it.
a Conway Twitty twang,
then there's the, Dolly Parton, Hollywood sound.
that's commercialized
country music.
it's pretty big everywhere, as I see it.
Garth Brooks is outselling Guns and Roses
I think some of them, the artists are even, hitting the pop charts.
kind of strange that it's getting as big as it is.
Concert tours for country and western sings it's odd,
I don't know,
kind of going an odd direction nowadays, I think.
It's becoming not necessarily good music, just popular music,
I think most artists are in to make a few bucks.
that's all it,
they're not in it to say anything or give a message
which is what they were do ,
sixties, early seventies, they were
That's what it,
they were definitely pushing a message.
that's you say,
music is wrapped around now.
Now, it's the other way around.
I don't think Gun,
at least to my mind, Guns and Roses doesn't have
they don't have anything really important you want to hear.
it's kind of odd,
it's like, it doesn't have to be good,
it's just who does it,
Paula Abdul song
I think, if somebody else were to play that, everybody would think, that's lousy,
because she did it, it's supposed to be good,
it comes to the point where it's your name, not what you do
more than anything.
Madonna can do anything
it would be considered good because it's Madonna,
Madonna could start playing folk music
folk music would be huge just because Madonna does it,
huh .
it's really backwards how things are working now
it's the artist, not the merit.
don't know that that's, I don't think that's a good thing at all,
the, point we've reached,
I don't know how
how much farther we can digress before we have to turn it around and go the other way, at least.
I don't know,
I know for myself that, for the most part, I don't know which artist is which,
I listen to a song,
I either like the song
I don't like it
if I really like the song, eventually I'll figure out who it was.
that's about how I am on popular music.
I don't know enough about it because I just listen,
everything I listen to is what I buy, not whatever they play on the radio
you have to figure out what to buy,
do you just buy along the same artist?
I just mostly buy along the same lines all the time.
I don't really switch around to new things very often.
it's way to hectic and too confusing.
you keep buying the same artists until you don't like an album, then you stop?
about the only new music I hear is somebody else that I know
will buy something new that I haven't heard
I listen to it that way,
as far as,
I don't go out on a limb and buy something new very often unless I've heard it.
that's one thing I like about of the folk music scenes,
there's a couple of nice, small coffee houses up in New Jersey.
it's very nice,
you go into the coffee house
an artist is there
very often the artist will have
if you like the artist, you buy the album.
you definitely get to try before you buy.
that's definitely
you don't always quite get it right,
you go first.
I have, two kids,
I have one seven and one five
they're in a public school here in Tyler
I'm happy with it.
I'm happy with the school,
it's great,
good teachers
good curriculum,
they learn a lot,
they have no problems,
I do live part of the city,
I live in, the real richy part, I guess.
I'm not,
everybody around me is
I have friends that live in the other, the less fortunate or whatever you want to call it part of town
their schools are kind of rundown and, older
they don't really offer as much, as, the school that my girls are in.
I don't really think that's fair.
I'm happy with what they're in,
go ahead .
it's pretty much what I was
a lot of disparity between different neighborhoods and what sort of schools go in.
I grew up in New York
the place,
or not New York City, upstate New York
I went to, the City of Rochester School District
my friends were in one of the neighboring suburbs
too far removed geographically from each other,
the difference in schools I think was pretty substantial
one of the things that probably would have been better is if the entire county just one school system.
that equitable distribution of money
what was happening was, all the very rich people suburbs
the city had a very low tax base so they didn't have a lot
of money to work with.
As a result, the schools were rundown,
there wasn't as many, of the nice supplies in science class that we would have liked.
There wasn't as many advanced placement courses, when I was a senior
that some other schools had.
think that to help schools in general, and get them all to a minimum level of competency almost, would be to expand the size of school districts so you get a wider variety of people,
problem with that is then pull their kids out of the public school and put them in private schools or
they'll move farther away
Right .
to get better schools.
kind of, you end up chasing, like a dog chasing its own tail sort of.
Also, family environment,
you can come to south Tyler where I live
you have got room mothers in every room,
you've got art mothers,
you've got holiday,
there's parties.
All these kids have these parents, always up there for
You can go to north Tyler to the schools
the parents might not could even tell you what their kid's teacher's name is.
that has whole lot to do with it,
as far as their learning, if the parents aren't, willing to go with the kids and find out what they're learning and if they're learning
they really don't have much of a chance
at all.
Why is that?
Why is that?
Why ((you asking)) ,
up there at my kids' school,
I know what they're learning
if they're up, I call and find out,
is she having problems,
does she need help with anything,
she's doing fine,
know kids that their parents could really give a rip
the kids
are not motivated.
They have no motivation from home,
they just go to school
((eh)), I'll get through the day, and, bring homework home
there's nobody sit them down and say, you're going to do this.
just, take a notion to do it,
they do,
that doesn't work either,
they have to have guidance
they can't just have it at school and then come home
there's nothing,
I know that was a big factor for me.
I ended up coming out the public school system very well
and was very good education,
ended up getting some scholarships to go to college
really nice,
I think the difference for me was that they were always there,
of course you're going to study and do well
that's the way,
of course, are you,
The last auto repair I had was
I have a nineteen eighty four Nissan truck
I had a tune up done
the brakes done on it
the reason I did that was because I don't have a scope
it has eight spark plugs
it's hard at them
and plus the time on them.
I just don't have time any more.
as far as maintenance tasks that I do myself, usually change the oil and wash the air filter
had an occasion the battery once,
I wanted,
I do have the background.
I know what needs to be done
I know that the oil be changed very regularly and all of the bearings
the system needs to be lubricated and
stay on top of that
wanted my front wheels,
I wanted the bearings packed
they wanted something like fifteen dollars, a front or something like that
maybe it was thirty dollars to do it
Just to pack the bearings?
just to pack the bearings,
what I found is that they had a brake job
I had them,
the other thing I let them do some times is that I let them go through and the diagnostics.
That's free,
I can decide whether I want them to do it or whether I can do it,
they told me that brake pads were gosh, seventy percent still good,
still it was cheaper in the long run
I just got the the brakes done
I thought that was a good deal.
they repacked the wheel bearings.
they the the wheel bearings.
had considerable experience.
good back yard mechanic
took auto shop in high school,
it's been a while back,
still have a pretty good feel for it,
one thing I didn't know is that when I was messing around with cars and stuff and most of the cars,
had bigger cars
the brakes go out fairly rapidly on those
what I was surprised at is that on my little Nissan I have almost one hundred and ten,
I drove on those brake pads for, forty five thousand miles
there was hardly any wear to them.
those small little trucks and cars like that, the longevity of the brake pads is really good.
they've gotten to the point that they don't weigh very much
Exa ,
surface materials on the pads is so good.
just did it anyway.
stay up on it.
I just kind of stay up on it
if you go and just about in time and pull my dip stick and pull it out and look at the oil, the oil is a white golden brown.
it's not dirty.
I keep it that way because the key to the longevity.
it sounds like you've had some good experiences with that
my experiences have been kind of contrary to that.
get a little more involved in the maintenance of my car
in fact I have an eighty seven Mustang with a three O two in it
that I've, beefed up a little bit
one of the things that I did was to change the pulley system on it to use under drive pulleys so that the engine doesn't have to turn the accessories and can use more of the power to the rear wheels
huh .
the only catch was the first set of under drive pulleys that I put on it were, not even cast aluminum.
They were just pressed aluminum.
You're talking about the vibration dampener?
pulleys that you change.
You change the crank pulley
That's the vibration dampener,
the alternator pulley and, the water pump pulley.
when I changed those over, I put on pressed aluminum things
probably about four months ago the water pump decided to go out.
in the process of seizing, the belt spun on the pulley and wore
through the water pump pulley almost all the way.
But not far enough to notice.
I was on my way to work one day
the water pump pulley split laterally in half.
there was half a water pump pulley still attached to the water pump
the other half was kind of dangling off the end of the crank
topic is hobbies .
In your spare time.
Who has spare time ?
I do any handicraft things like that.
do, salt ornaments and things.
that was, good years ago
my spare time
I usually go do aerobics and read,
about it .
I understood that.
full time
I have two kids
my spare time usually involves something with the kids.
I can't really say that we have hobbies.
It's more like maybe projects or something on the weekend.
we like to go out ,
go out,
that's what I meant by salt that did that like as a family, little ornaments and,
things like that, and just kind of really got into it. during the Christmas season,
making them up for other people and things like that.
as far as,
I've just never been very skilled at,
(( )).
far, needle,
work ((cloths)).
the things I've tried to do just don't look very good ,
guess mostly as far crafts go, I've done, some needlepoint.
I've done mostly cross stitching.
I used to, do
one that I did for both kids are
they're plaques with, different kind of animals
you have their birth date on them,
you have a little picture of them
you frame them and stuff,
but nothing steady.
Just when I get some spare time here and there I'll work on it,
it's nothing that I,
It's not,
can really,
like you sit and knit every night .
Not at all.
I don't even know how to knit
my mother used to knit,
all the time
I don't even know how to knit ,
I'm like, that's a lost art from this family .
it's not a very good topic
it feels like,
not when you're n ,
neither one of us are really,
have seen things I really like,
that were done, especially like needlepoint.
cushions and things.
it just seems like there'd be so much time involved in it,
that the petty point and things like that.
seems like it's easier just to go out and buy it already made .
(( )) I don't know is,
it's like there,
here a lot of the country stuff is in, a lot of the woodwork, a lot of, stenciling.
you can go to flea market and stuff
there's just tons of stuff everywhere
people just do it in their garage
on weekends they go out and sell it
during the week they go back and do some more.
they do that as their job. Whereas,
Right .
for us it,
they make it cheaper for us to buy .
Yeah .
I'm sure it must be relaxing to do things like that
I can remember when I used to do, and things.
relaxing, creative,
you felt very creative.
it just was
involved, so much time involved and the different steps and things.
Okay .
we're okay.
I think we did ((the)) five minutes,
we don't have to keep talking about nothing anymore .
thank you.
I hope you have a good rest of your weekend.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
Where are you from Tina?
I'm from Maryland
I have one son who's almost sixteen months old.
you married, or ...
You are.
two children,
I have a seven year old and a three year old.
I try to spend as much time as possible with them.
That's good.
what kind of things do you do?
do a lot of things with them,
my youngest is,
my oldest is in school
she has a lot of school programs and things like that.
it a big change in your life, to,
yeah .
have a child.
it's really nice,
my husband, is working of the time.
He's working long hours,
I'm staying home.
I'm just working a couple days a month,
What do you do during days?
we spend a lot of time at the playground
we go to the zoo,
we go
we wa , ...
you worked a couple days a month, though,
you do?
I'm a nurse.
are you?
it's real easy to work out my schedule,
to still stay in with that,
to have enough time to spend with Matthew.
just now really starting get interested in a lot of things,
I understand that,
They really grow up quick. Especially at that early age.
Yeah .
wife was,
she worked part time when my oldest little
now she's staying home all the time,
that worked out really well because it's a big transition I think to have children.
to go from, nothing,
if you want to do something every night that's fine,
when you have children it doesn't work that way anymore,
That's right,
turning to, a lot of people are realizing that
still there are so many people that their careers first
really hurting, the kids,
I agree with you,
I think that my wife leaned that way
I'm really glad she did
I'm glad she's staying home,
I know there are some days when she wi ,
I know, .
she wishes she was back at work.
That's why I like to work a couple days,
I think it's,
it gives me a break.
well that's why I'm glad my wife did too,
she worked either two to days a week
that got her out of the house
yet she'd get to spend, three or four days with ...
Most of the time at home,
we had started out like that
I think that was really ideal,
I do to,
I agree,
then when you start having two of them, it's, a little bit tougher,
because you've got to make a little more money, to make that payoff and stuff.
it's difficult,
you from the Maryland area?
I've lived here forever,
I live in Germantown,
I'm in Dallas, Texas.
In Dallas,
lived here like eight years or so,
my wife's from Fort Worth.
yea ,.
I work for Texas Instruments.
that explains.
that explains it doesn't it.
. I don't know,
we do a lot of things on the weekends together, the family,
as far as during the week, usually, just my son and I,
we're ...
what's your husband do?
works for Coca Cola.
manages a plant out here,
it takes a lot of time.
I'm sure it does.
we take walks,
and go to the library,
and try to fill our day with things like that,
my wife did some teaching at a private tutoring place.
A Sylvan Learning Center this year
got me more time with the kids at night and stuff,
'cause normally they need something they just go to mom.
Yeah .
No matter what it is,
perfectly capable of doing it for them,
it's so much easier to go to mom,
I guess they get used to it.
we'd go to the library and do things like that,
That's good,
that's good.
I know my husband was real,
in the beginning when was transferred to larger plant
works about an hour and a half away
it takes him a little bit of time.
I'm not able to work during the week, because of that.
working in the evening,
he was coming home
could go to work,
their relationship, when I was able to work in the evenings, really grew.
just the time that they were spending together,
I think it really helped to have that time together.
it really does
I think grow closer.
husband, naturally a child,
he been around children,
seven other brothers and sisters,
thirteen grand,
his parents have thirteen grandchildren.
a lot of kids in the family
he really enjoys it.
right now it's kind of a difficult time,
the cost of living here is just so tremendously, outrageous .
it's difficult, to do it any other way.
I understand.
hard because,
then you're not getting to spend as much time home,
your husband is not getting to spend as much time at home as he'd want to.
That's right.
a tough situation,
again, some,
you got to do what you got to do,
to get along, too,
at least, just consider myself blessed that I can stay home .
like I said my wife normally feels that way,
there are days when, I come home and she says here take these kids,
I'm getting out.
I know .
had about enough during those days,
I know.
for the most part, really feel like that's led,
the way that, we , jus ,
like what you said with the cost of living and everything, I think a lot of people can't afford to get by on just one salary an
and won't.
I think that's to a decline families and family values especially.
it has.
I really think that that's one of the problems the nation's facing that, we need to do something about,
I don't know what.
I believe that too,
I think, the kids are where they need to,
they need to really focus on the children
you have said that a couple of years ago, do you think?
even really think about it that much,
was of it,
really that important to me,
it's amazing how your whole focus on life changes after you've had a child.
really does,
just the whole,
seeing how you really forming this,
the mind .
in the next year or so, you'll see so many instances where, he'll mimic something that you've done,
everything I'm doing, he's learning from.
That's right.
you think, if I wasn't here he'd be learning that from a baby sitter or from a day care.
how they're developing their patterns.
I think a lot of people either, don't care, or don't realize it,
they just put it in the back of their mind and let it slide.
seen a lot of people just say he'll learn everything when he gets into,
it's true.
even just this first year, that I've been with, my son, he's,
I can just see how much,
a difference it makes staying home with him,
instead of, (( )),
I think it becomes too,
you get to stay home,
it's not just for him,
it's also for you, because you're both kind of bonding together there too, I think,
that's true.
it's been nice talking to you.
it's nice talking to you, too.
good luck.
good bye.
Lynn, want to start?
Do you want to tell me about ((summer)) vacations you've taken
tend to, take two kinds of vacations, the vacations to visit family
and the vacations to just have a week being cultural and going to the theater and doing sight seeing and things like that.
Which is your favorite?
I couldn't live without the family vacations,
my favorite is indulgent ones, where we go off see places that have interested me since I was a kid,
for the most part.
Your family doesn't live close, then?
not anymore.
been in San Diego for the last few years,
they're moving to Florida.
that's one of those things,
you just have to go once a year.
I understand.
basically sorts out into that,
every three or four years I try to get over to England, because I lived there for a while,
some years back.
I've only been there once.
I'd love to go back.
Beautiful country.
Beautiful country,
it was,
beautiful people.
I'd real,
we had a great time.
really like to go because, I'm fairly recently married
my husband has been hearing about these people for years
he's never met them,
to do that.
our typical vacation,
we enjoy the family vacations,
the other ones are very special getaways,
we probably take one of each every year.
How about yourself?
as you do, take family vacations, sometimes one a year,
this year we're not going to be taking one for several reasons.
vacations we really enjoy,
I think we've been on three cruises.
I've never,
been on a cruise.
we really love cruises.
We've gone on CARNIVAL CRUISE LINES.
we've gone fairly inexpensive as most cruises go.
we usually book just a month before it's ready to go.
we get upgraded.
in fact, we had an outside room
it was beautiful.
we like not having to take our suitcase in and out of hotel rooms and drag it all around.
It's kind of,
what do you do on a cruise?
I've never been on a cruise.
my God, you do everything.
can be as busy as you want to be, or as laid back as you want to be.
You can sit in the sun all day around the pool,
you can take part in the games that they have going on.
They always have bingo.
They have a casino.
they have a massage parlor.
They have exercise,
you can do anything.
that's just aboard ship.
when the ship docks, you get to go sight seeing and shopping.
that's quite fun.
where have you been on these cruises?
Nassau, San Juan, Saint Thomas.
We've been there twice.
We went two cruises that hit those islands, but with different people.
gone with friends each time.
I see.
we went to, the western Caribbean, which is, Port, Cancun, Cozumel,
Mexican coast.
and Ocho Rios.
Pardon me?
That's all Mexico, I think.
it was wonderful.
we really like those.
I guess we just like to go entirely different.
We've been to a few places in this country.
We still have a lot to see, though.
Where are you from originally?
We're from Illinois originally.
we've been down in Texas eighteen years,
like you, we always try to make it, back home to see the relatives.
We both still have family there.
that's fun.
It brings back a lot of memories.
things are different there, though.
I don't know.
It's just entirely different world than this ((area)).
grew up in Dallas,
Did you?
like I'm going home.
my parents retired first to San Diego,
they're going now to Florida,
they're going very nice places,
thank God,
that will be a pleasure to visit and get to know.
I really came to love San Diego and feel very,
comfortable there.
They've been there eight years.
I just grab the car and drive everywhere.
that's great.
it is nice,
it's not home.
This is home,
I've never thought about a cruise.
It's so funny.
they really are.
done them three times.
We'd be going again year if circumstances hadn't changed.
we'd probably go.
My husband would,
the minute I said the word, he's chomping at the bit.
He kind of likes the casinos a little bit.
I like all of that.
What's the best part, from your point of view?
I like seeing other countries and shopping in other places.
I like shopping.
I can shop anyplace, shop in London and France and wherever.
Now, my kids are moving to Toronto,
we're going to be able to go up there.
that will be nice.
I'm kind of looking forward to that, except I hate to see them go.
the winter.
that's what everybody says,
think it's,
I think I'll try to stay away, except second grandchild will be born the winter in January.
that will be hard to stay away from.
are exceptions made for special occasions like that.
the ordinary thing is to stay out of the north in the winter and get out of Texas in the summer
Isn't that the truth,
that sounds wonderful.
would contemplate going on a cruise, all circumstances permitting it.
there's all age too,
kind of fun.
sit at a table with a lot of people for your meals, you meet different people.
You may meet people, thirty years older than you, or younger,
everybody is really interesting,
everybody is there to have a good time
How long are the cruises?
we've only gone on the seven day cruises.
They have shorter ones
they have ten day ones.
I think seven days is long enough for us.
By that time we're ready to get home and get back to our routine.
I think most vacations, seven days is enough for us.
We've gone,
I think when we went to England and France, we were there ten, twelve days,
that was pushing it a bit.
I tend, I spend enough money to go overseas ,
go for a long time.
makes sense, it really does.
we went to Panama too.
that's interesting.
Went to Panama last August.
Our son in law is from Panama.
we went with our daughter and son in law to visit his parents, who live there.
his father is doctor
his mother is a kindergarten teacher,
they took time off,
it was their winter
they were having a little break,
they took some time off that, they could show us around.
is a beautiful country.
It is beautiful.
They have mountains.
We were an hour away from the mountains or an hour away from the shore.
That's really nice.
is gorgeous.
They live in a small town called David, which is northern Panama up near Costa Rica.
it's just a gorgeous country.
Most people don't realize it.
I think if they could get tourists coming to their country, they'd improve the economy considerably.
now things are calming down again.
That will happen.
We really so.
really great.
as I said, basically all I've done is go back and forth to parents
that's pretty good.
That's pretty good.
a conference in L A,
we spent a week in L A
of course,
do you like L A?
I'm very unusual.
I like,
You ready?
What have you seen lately?
it's funny, when I tried,
to make the call the other days,
I thought,
I hadn't seen anything since DANCES WITH WOLVES
today I went to see REGARDING WITH HENRY.
I'm dying to see that.
It was really good.
Jeff Wariner just got out of the hospital
huh .
Jeff and Deeanna went and another friend in the neighborhood,
we all liked it.
We had both moms and, fifteen year olds and a twelve year old
my goodness.
everyone enjoyed it.
I am just dying to see it.
I went to dinner with some friends last weekend
they said get a baby sitter
we'll all go see REGARDING HENRY
I said, I want to see it so bad.
my son had gotten to see a lot of movies this summer, on, choir tour and
visiting friends and one thing and another. A lot of the ones I had wanted to see
since he had this friend up from Houston, and his friend had already seen so many and I thought they decided on this and I thought I want to see this one, too.
finally, it's my first summer movie .
let me see.
Was it,
we went to see ONE HUNDRED AND ONE DALMATIANS last weekend
that may be,
right before I went in the hospital my girlfriend said come on,
we're going to the movies.
we won't,
she goes all the time
I go maybe once every couple of months.
when I go, I go see two at a time.
we went to see SOAPDISH,
was that good?
We laughed so hard,
it was just, you couldn't hear half the dialogue because everyone in the audience was laughing
so hard.
I want to see that and CITY SLICKERS both.
I love
that's what I was ,
that's the other one that we went to that night.
was it?
my face hurt so bad,
from laughing
because I love Billy Crystal.
course, growing up the back of a horse, and being on ranches and stuff, so much of that was so true
I was absolutely rolling in the aisles.
It was so funny.
Both of them were great.
glad to hear that because they,
we just laughed so hard.
like I said, it is so cornball
it is so overacted that you're just hysterical
huh .
carried it off,
to the tee.
know if you got to see WEEKEND, AT BERNIE'S
that was out a couple of year's ago.
They had a free showing at the Berkeley, United Artist.
How neat.
I don't know who was here or whether Jay called a friend
we didn't think we'd have much chance of getting in
we thought we'd try it, free movie.
It was so funny and it sounds like, what you were just describing, SOAPDISH, too.
hurt by the time we came out.
the whole theater was hysterical
if you have a chance to rent it, at least,
it should be out on T V, I would think,
I think it is.
I think it is.
cause just a fun summer light comedy,
make your cheeks hurt laughing.
Especially in the theater it was contagious,
imagine the way SOAPDISH was, but, with
everyone laughing.
I never laughed.
people were just screaming and applauding
it was just hysterical.
I'm glad you did that before your surgery .
me too, because I don't even know if I could live through it now.
Yeah .
I'm getting around real good
I'm just still real sore.
today course I went back to work two weeks after,
I don't have permanent work.
working with a temporary agency.
the second week I was out of the hospital I went up and worked half day on the computers cause you can learn all the software for free.
I went up to do WordPerfect cause that seems like that's what everybody wants,
I was up there half a day and came home and collapsed.
they called me to see if I wanted to work a day.
I said, yeah,
I went
of course it took me the whole weekend to recover from that.
I worked about three days a week ever since, two to three days a week.
I went to my doctors last Thursday,
this was my fourth week checkup
he said gosh, you're just healing really well,
I just can't get over this.
He says, in two weeks you can go back to doing your crazy normal things.
If you want to play ball, you can go play ball.
He says, I'm not going to say you're going to feel like playing ball
you can
Yeah .
if you want to.
he was teasing me
he says, yeah,
you'll be out there waterskiing,
I can just see it now.
he says so you just take it easy for two more weeks.
You've only got two more weeks.
I said okay fine, I will .
Whatever you call easy, I'll do it,
I've been out trying to find a job because this is just not cutting it.
Yeah .
real glad that we didn't go see those funny ones still sort of on the sore side.
Yeah .
your next,
have you seen ROBIN HOOD yet?
that was one, Jay got to see with a friend
to find time it's hard, with Jim's schedule, too, just to get a time that we can both go.
I'm holding out for CITY SLICKERS for the two of us because, we had friends that went to see that and said, it's just perfect for our age group
I think needs a comedy, too.
that's what he would have liked to have seen REGARDING HENRY, too,
knew that,
got a lot of company this summer, which is wonderful.
We're really enjoying it
some of the different things we're doing,
there's just not to do it all
he said, realistically ,
he knew he couldn't get them all in.
Jay really liked ROBIN HOOD.
when the choir group went to see BACKDRAFT and they thought funny cause he sounded like the critics.
He said, the plot line and the characters, aren't real big
fire scenes and the dra ,
that action part is fantastic.
he thought ROBIN HOOD was great.
It was real different then you'd expect,
he enjoyed it
I went,
course I am a Kevin Costner fan.
me too.
I really, like him a lot. Which is why, DANCES WITH WOLVES was the last movie we had seen
for several months
Gosh, was that wonderful.
It was,
in fact, a friend from Germany was visiting in March
to take him to see it.
We were going to sit through it again cause we really wanted him to see it, too.
I just thought that was terrific.
I really enjoy Harrison Ford which is one of the reasons I wanted to see,
I do, too.
I think he's really good.
he's very good in REGARDING HENRY.
That's not an easy part to play, don't think .
I wouldn't think.
my kids are going to their Dad's tomorrow night
I sort of think I may go do that.
your sides .
Good .
was this the first time you got to see ONE HUNDRED AND ONE DALMATIANS?
I hav ,
my parents took me when I was probably somewhere between Ashley and Jamie's age .
we went to the,
((Push)) my number.
are you a golfer
are you a spectator?
I'm a,
I play golf
I don't actually play golf.
I'm the same way.
I go out there and hit the ball.
Hack it all over the place?
It's sickening, isn't it?
in the Carolina's just, we've got a bunch of golf courses around here.
We've got tons up here
I don't know.
How do you feel about your game?
I guess that's a good question?
I'm not a serious golfer at all,
a friend of mine goes golfing a lot
he drags me out every now and then
I don't really even have a game.
I usually
when I go out and play golf it's usually like par threes that,
I like watching it on T V.
I like that too.
I don't know
I try to play,
God, played two, three times a week and got lousy.
I guess that's the best I ever got was lousy.
I thought I was really improving and the big break was going to come
I got worse again
I, if hit a great deal my friends
((to get me)) say I hit worm burners because can't hit it up in the air.
I'm pretty bad
I get great distance hitting it, (( )) across the ground,
if it's going over water or something one of them have to take the shot for me because I'm,
I'm getting better.
I've got where now I can hit it the air some of the time.
That's pretty good.
I'm kind of a novice at it.
I'm that and worse.
next year I,
actually I take it kind of seriously
I've been doing so bad.
I'm starting over from scratch.
I'm going to go take lessons and everything.
I'm going to do it right, and see if I can actually play this game or not.
guess that's what I need to do get some kind of lessons or something.
my tee off is not bad,
good up to everything else putting and stuff like that
it's just, initial tee .
what do you do when you're putting?
That's a good thing.
That's something I could learn actually.
That's when I do my worst.
I finally get to the green
I think I'm doing fine
Just walking around the hollow and making sure there's not really,
checking the ground so forth,
See how it's going to break or whatever.
Can you really see it though?
What about the speed?
down on the ground you really can.
can you tell fast you're going to hit it?
it's up on a slope that you've got to hit it not kill it
you've got to hit enough speed and the right angle that
because when it's going up a hill it's going to break in a direction.
you can feel that?
I don't know
it within four or five feet or something
I don't have enough field.
Now I'm T V watching.
They make you die at the hole every time.
it just dies and rolls in.
I don't know,
it's hard for me.
like I said
once I get up on the green I'm fine,
tee shot, it,
when teeing off go probably a hundred feet across the ground
takes me awhile to get to the hole
Once you're there, you're all set though.
I'm all set.
We should play team golf then.
I'll get us there
you put it in.
(( )) that sounds good to me.
I s ,
the T V golfers they do that.
It takes them two to get there and two to get it in
it's fifty percent.
me it takes me five to get there and five to get it in.
it usually takes me about probably or three to get it there
that's according to the hole
it ju ,
maybe one or two putts.
according to where I'm at on the green.
That's good.
the friends I play with, they play all the time
they're really good.
Joe Pros?
they're not Joe Pros
golf in the high sixties low seventies
I guess they're pretty good .
That's pretty good.
For eighteen?
For eighteen.
that's pretty good.
I'm talking to the wrong guy.
Your shitty golf is probably the best golf I've ever seen.
that's not my golf.
That's my friends.
usually in the eighties or nineties
not good .
I'm in the nineties I'm feeling good.
I'm usually around a hundred.
That's my thing. Around a hundred.
I can hit a great drives and think I'm going to do all awesome on this hole
it ain't going to happen.
slice it
I hook it ever single time
I alternate.
it's a good thing with me I slice it every single time.
That's good.
I aim,
Universal health insurance,
That's right.
What would we like to say .
I think,
I think universal health insurance, like national health, like what Canada has,
Is that what thinking the subject is about?
I think that's what the subject is about.
Did you read, the article in the paper today about this particular subject?
I guess I did not.
the state of Washington and the state of Minnesota is, going to begin testing for citizens of those two states
there's fourteen other, states that are considering it. Least according to the article in the paper this morning.
I think it's a trend that's, probably may go nationwide eventually because I think national health is something that we all need.
It's getting to a point that you have to have it,
you have to have some form of health insurance.
it's been interesting that we,
Extremely expensive, though.
we live in a society, though, where everyone if you ask them on polls, will, say that they think that everyone has a right to health care.
yet, I don't think we've ever quite decided who's really supposed to pay for it.
that's the thing,
unfortunately the ones that currently pay and pay the premiums for health insurance paying for the people that don't have health insurance.
Which is why people are talking about ,
we ought to just admit it perhaps
and then try and somehow subsidize it in a way that's more fair.
I don't think you,
You have health insurance?
I do.
Through your company?
through my company,
I have been in a situation, recently where I was laid off from a position as a sales manager of a company and was off work for about a year
my wife developed cancer.
We didn't have any
my goodness.
it was a
That's must have been hard .
go to Parkland type situation.
How was your care at Parkland?
because it was a life threatening situation, it was very good.
turned out was at Parkland.
yet, Parkland is not free, either.
it's not free,
Is it affordable?
a situation that because I didn't have any insurance and I was on unemployment, it was paid by the county.
you did have a good experience.
I had a bad experience as it turned out.
I was fortunate that there was Parkland.
Is your wife better, I hope?
no she passed away.
I'm real sorry.
That's all right.
Sure. *
That happens.
It does happen,
it's very sad.
in any event, I'm in favor of national health.
If I had
so am I.
to vote for it.
Actually, I'm a pediatrician
is that right?
I feel very strongly about, children, and, developed very strong feelings about this during our measles epidemic
last year.
Where we certainly proved that we're not doing a very good job with preventive health care among children and particularly the children who need it most.
I'm really quite active in trying to, be proactive at least for children's issues.
I strongly believe that all children have a right to immunization, glasses, hearing aids , basic health benefits.
grew up and
I grew up in south central Kansas,
we had,
my mom worked for
we had x rays every year,
we had a dentist come to our school and, check our teeth once a year at least.
we had all our flu shots taken care of, our measles, mumps, rubella and all that other stuff.
when my children were growing up, we didn't have that.
We had to pay for it, which I wasn't opposed to paying for it.
I had the money to pay for it,
I'm sure that there were people that don't.
gone up so much.
The cost of immunizations for example, and just benefits,
that has really forced people into doing a lot of things unnecessarily, et cetera.
I don't know,
in case you didn't know, Texas leads the nation in uninsured children.
Thirty one percent of all Texas children
Did not know that.
do not have insurance and are not on Medicaid.
one out of every three children has nothing to reimburse them for their health care.
I work in the children's Parkland system
it's pretty overwhelming to me.
it's pretty hard to be indigent and to be dependent upon indigent health care systems in Dallas county.
now what are your opinions on recycling?
I definitely think that we need to start recycling.
I think it has got to be an individual responsibility until,
I think if we wait, which is happening until somebody says we have to do it
it is going to be to late.
I have heard reports around here that the landfills will be full by the year two thousand.
I have heard that too.
that is not too far away,
I don't know how it is there.
It is very difficult here even if you care like I do to do much.
I take, my paper,
I can take plastic and paper bags back to the grocery store
I can take plastic milk cartons or if they have water in them
there are some fire stations I can take newspapers to
that is very inconvenient cause I have to wait until I have enough of them to make the trip worthwhile.
I started saving newspapers
I would take a ton of them
I can't remember where I went to take them,
they wouldn't take them.
It is real hard to find a spot
I don't know if you note, even doing that, the amount of trash we throw away is incredible
I know.
there is no place to,
There is no really recycling facilities.
We have a pilot program in Arlington going on I think in the north part of the city where they separate they put it out.
I think that is a good idea.
I think that is what it is going to have to come to. Where we are just forced to.
Besides, a law or whatever.
that's how it is
in New York isn't it.
I think so,
just because they have to.
you get ticketed if you don't do it right.
I think it is going to come to that because some people will just not go to the,
trouble for me to do what I do
I am willing to do it
you have to have a place to store all of it
I live in an apartment.
It is very difficult.
our garage is always full of sacks of newspapers
I don't know.
I think there needs to be more places
also I have a real strong opinion.
In Iowa, the state I am from
I believe it has gone up to a dollar now.
Every time you buy a container, no matter what it is, whether it is glass, whether it's a beer can or a fifth of whiskey or a pop or whatever, you pay ten cents for it
you take it back to the store
you get it back.
that way it kind of forces you to recycle.
You are forced to.
you also don't see the litter there.
People just,
that's true.
It makes it worthwhile to take it back
I've just started drinking a new water called Clearly Canadian,
I don't know if you've tried it
I have seen them.
they have on the ba , that they pay five cents
it even shows the states that,
That take them back.
of them are five, some are ten cents.
I am looking at it right now.
Is Texas one of them?
Texas is not one of them
I have to throw them away cause there is no place to take glass.
I don't think that there is enough being done.
I work at J C PENNY at their corporate headquarters.
we have a paper recycling program that, is company wide
I do the recycling for that.
Do they save the paper use at the office paper.
Because there is a lot of waste there isn't there.
I know there is a lot of computer paper
that you can't use.
we use to have,
I don't even remember made from the recycling program.
They have donated it to charities.
they have made a substantial amount of money from it.
Something else I think we is support companies that encourage
I have decided Downy Fabric Softener now has where you can buy a little carton
you add wa ,
I image everybody else will start doing that sooner or later,
I am going to stick with Downey because they were first.
I want them to have my business.
I think packaging could be done much better.
There is so much plastic.
I know,
you see some of the stuff
when they come out with the new things, you are like, why didn't you think of that before.
I think that it's just people have got to be aware.
Unfortunately, there are a lot of people that just don't care
they don't want to think about it.
that's true.
I just look at it, I don't want my grandchildren looking at me and saying why didn't you do something.
I want to feel like I at least tried.
I don't know.
It just may overwhelm us here when we run out of places to put it.
Then we will be forced to.
It may be too late.
burn trash or anything like,
Very little.
That's another thing that,
there were no,
Then, that's pollution.
I know Amway.
I use a couple of things from Amway that it says this is burnable material.
that doesn't do me any good because I don't have any place to burn it.
I know.
I guess you run into the pollution factor.
just like the glass bottles, that it says on the bottle I can get ten cents, but not in Texas.
there is no place I can take glass to.
I still throw away a lot of glass.
It is really sad.
the packaging thing really grips me.
You buy some
it's got a great big piece of cardboard and a great big piece of plastic,
I myself am not in favor of drug testing in the work place except in this, very specific examples such as, transportation workers, as in, air traffic controllers, bus drivers and that kind of thing.
I don't really think that it's, too many,
I think it's a severe invasion of somebody's privacy to say, we're going to look at your urine and then decide whether you're, worthy of working for us.
I really don't see that that's a valid, thing for a company to say,
don't think I would work for somebody if they were going to reject me on the basis of what's inside my body.
I guess I basically agree that,
do you think it's okay for a company to reject somebody knowing that they'll take drugs?
suppose they found out some other way?
think the problem here that drug test does not necessarily imply that someone is taking drugs or not taking drugs.
There's too many cases where it can,
there can be false positive results, and sort of thing.
I don't think there's any definitive,
okay this person is taking drugs,
we don't want him here.
like I said, some industries, though, I think it'd be very necessary,
I wouldn't want any air traffic controllers high or anything like that when I'm flying in an airplane.
I find it to be pretty offensive it's such big deal.
if your employer's not going to trust you
think it's a whole trust issue.
I just can't see it.
have you ever been in a situation where were drug tested
I have been.
I once too,
I was very offended the whole process.
it's very humiliating,
I'm not speaking in favor of drugs or against drugs,
am totally against that sort of a,
a pretty personal thing when somebody says I want to look at your urine before I'm going to talk to you.
I had it during a job interview,
I just thought it was dumb of the company, at a point where they were trying to convince me want to work for them
to do this,
I'm just like, I'm not even going to think much about it
if you're going to treat me with this much respect even before
you've gotten to know me.
basically my opinion on it, right there, is that it's just,
was in the same sort of situation as,
it was a job interview
you had a physical, where you were drug tested,
I just,
I know people who have been drug tested and who have not, been hired by a corporation which,
I really.
The other side of it besides its being an invasion of personal privacy, it's my bodily fluid
I don't really want you to look at it, or
or something pretty basic like that,
just to the fact that I don't know that it is a company's business to regulate what it's employees are doing when they're not at work.
I mean, during the eight hours, during the day, when they're supposed to be there, I think they have every right to say are acceptable and these are not,
when it enters into what they're doing when they're not at work, I find that to be fairly offensive also.
like you say, if it's not a critical kind of job where someone could get hurt, then really employer ought to be judging you on how well you do your work
rather than on these other factors.
if you are doing drugs and it's causing a problem, then they'll notice it for other reasons.
That's exactly right.
also I just think gets a lot,
I'm a big, supporter of personal freedoms and personal privacies,
I think that it just moves down along a line I really would find bad most people went down that line into regulating employees' lives outside of work,
there's already talk of people,
we're not going to hire you if you smoke.
(( )).
can see how they can say in the work place don't want them to smoke,
when somebody leaves work, I don't think that it's the employer's right to regulate their life style at all.
do you think it's, should be illegal for an employer to do this
I really think it should be, except as I've mentioned twice now, in the specified industries
jobs, because there are certain things where it's just vital that a person is clear minded at all times.
other than that it should be allowable.
I think it should be illegal for them want to do that.
kind of the big brother syndrome,
I just,
anything like that just kind of scares me.
I tend view it,
even though I don't think I'd work for a company that did that, I sort of want to defend an employer's rights rights,
an employer, really, I think, has the right to hire someone on any basis they want to
if they say they don't want smokers, I sort of feel like an employer should have the right to decide whether they want to allow that.
I don't really,
I thought it was supposed to give a recording,
I do take care of pretty much all of the stuff my wife and for me
I, embarrassed to say, it's pretty trivial.
do is, keep a list of things like debts that are outstanding and every two or three months update that and every once in a while make a list of what we spent that month,
I doubt I do it more than three times a year.
you use a computer?
I work with them all day,
I'm in computer science,
yet I
I do everything on paper .
I don't even use a calculator for the stuff I'm doing because it's all pretty round numbers.
mine is really simple, because I got all our bills paid off when, he was a Marine,
he went to Saudi Arabia
while he was gone I got all of our bills paid off,
really the only bills I have is rent, utilities, insurance
they come in,
I pay them,
that's it ,
that's about
the extent of it,
I don't really have this major budget or anything.
I take care of, two children and me and
just real careful with the money, What little we have ,
that's what I do.
it's pretty straightforward.
It's almo ,
I can't imagine having to go into real complicated stuff and making
fancy budgets.
It seems like if you're getting to that level, not in real good control.
I've never liked credit cards
huh .
and a lot of debt,
buy something on credit
you pay twice as much for it when you get done.
I like using credit cards for everything, but just paying off the bills
because that way it's a record of everything
I don't have to worry about keeping records of anything else
I don't have
because they come in at
too many,
the end of the month.
I don't have too many weaknesses,
I found out a credit card was one of them.
it's so much if something's on sale if you're a woman and you're a sale person,
it's like, it's on sale,
let's go grab it, ,
if you don't have the money, then use a credit card,
I got rid of them credit cards.
Yeah, I guess if that's
if that's a weakness, that's a good thing to do.
that was my weakness .
It wasn't bad,
I didn't have thousands of dollars, and like that,
learned that that wasn't for me,
I, self employed,
I have my own little cleaning business type thing,
I keep,
Do you find trouble keeping the records for taxes and all that
it's not hard,
I just keep it in a notebook and write down what I've made and, what it's going to have to go for that month
it's hard. Not at all.
that's good to know.
I always do my own income tax,
Do you?
I don't understand the idea of paying somebody do it.
It seems like it's absurd the number of people who end up having to pay somebody to do it.
R ,
all you got to do is read a book,
read the little book they send you
just the form.
fill in the blanks
and go.
it seems absurd that people will pay, some bucks just to get
a lot of them.
someone to,
it's dumb .
I guess if you had some really complicated stuff,
I don't,
I don't mess with it.
I don't use a calculator either, .
have things to add up
I don't trust myself with using a calculator or computer, too much stuff like that because I want to make sure keep on top of the numbers and understand what's going on.
I know too many people who use a calculator
if they make a mistake, they find out two months later because they weren't paying attention.
we have a,
it seem,
I bank at N C N B here
they have a number that you can call in,
I always call in once every other week or so
I will, check off what checks have cleared
Do you do that?
We have the same thing.
You do too?
I always check them off and, check my balance and my book because I always want to know exactly what I have,
I do that real often.
I do that,
your views on capital punishment?
I have ambivalent feelings because I don't think it serves as a kind of deterrent we would like to think it is.
on the other hand, it is expensive to maintain,
Texas has one of ((the)) biggest criminal justice systems in the country.
it's eating us alive budget wise
are they currently practicing capital punishment
in your state?
do practice capital punishment,
the nature of the, courts and the appeals and the stays and all that means that it's a very long haul before anybody's ever executed.
that's similar to Georgia.
I was reading in the paper just this morning, that it costs more to execute somebody it does to keep them.
That's probably true considering,
Because of all the costs of the appeals and all that
I guess in a way that, kind of defeats the purpose of having capital punishment if,
I think capital punishment is supposed to be primarily a deterrent to other people.
who would see it.
that would be the intent of it.
I'm not sure how successful that is.
I think it would be more successful if it was applied in a more expedient manner, if there weren't so many
the person who's going to commit the crime
knew that they were going to be punished severely, possibly capital punishment,
kind of work do you do?
I'm a research engineer,
I work, Georgia Tech.
I'm a school principal.
Elementary school.
in a very poor section of town with Anglo kids.
I see kids already that are going to be criminals
in spite of everything we can do
I'm afraid I think if we would take the equivalent amount of money and invest it in young people, that,
course, you couldn't do that because you got to do something with the ones that are already there
I think we would make a bigger investment in kids,
we'd have fewer decisions to make.
that's probably true,
I guess
Down the road,
there's other factors that,
pumping more money into the school system is a
good thing,
it's not going to,
I'm not talking about just in the school system.
I see.
I'm talking about,
I'm afraid I think that there are kids who just ought to be taken out of their homes and reared.
I know the institutions don't work that well,
((it's)) a bad day because I ((get)) all these kids through my office.
I have a school of five hundred and thirty seven kids.
Five hundred of them are good, solid kids
I have the same thirty seven in my office every day.
a lot of their parents are totally irresponsible.
Some of them in the penal system.
that's a difficult situation.
you just see those kids going down the road.
not all of them will commit offenses that have to do with capital punishment,
some of them have already been in youth centers.
And that kind of thing,
if we had something to do before they get to be full blown adult criminals,
I'm not talking about necessarily in the school system,
I'm not sure that the school system should be the agent of all the social action.
I think that's one reason we have problems in schools,
some of them are our problems,
a lot of it's because everything society wants, we are supposed to do.
that's another subject
that's probably true.
W ,
I dealt with two or three kids today that are going to end up where somebody making a decision what to do with them.
I guess that's not an easy solution.
no easy
solution for that.
know that there is an easy solution,
if you could find a way to prevent some of it,
It would be money better spent than,
do you know it costs more to keep an inmate on death row than it does to send a kid to Harvard?
That's true.
I'm sure it is,
Statistically, that's true.
certainly capital punishment isn't
going to solve a lot of problems
Are you for it?
I'm for it in
I guess I am
in some cases.
for certain cri ,
in certain crimes.
What kind of crimes would you it for?
premeditated murder.
Crimes of that nature, I think should definitely,
any mass murderer type individual.
would consider it for sexual abuse of children, on going.
not one instance, but perpetual abusers of children.
you always have castration .
somebody elected that recently.
I read about that .
all the civil rights people are up ((in)) arms about it,
I used to work in a day care center.
I worked all the different areas of the day care center
be deceiving to people.
I did not work there long because I couldn't handle treatment that the children got,
this is supposed to be a very well known center here in Tyler who had two or three, centers,
all over, the, city
they would, be one way when the parents were there and be another way when the parents left.
I think day care centers, you should make frequent checks to check in on them when they're not expecting it.
Because they things differently when you're not around,
I know wh ,
the things that we kind of looked at you want to see how many teachers you have.
how many kids they have and how they break it up.
one that sounds kind of like what you were in.
was a really good one,
in fact, it worked out for us because kind of bartered.
My wife did artwork for them
we got our day care free.
they didn't have enough teachers
this one was set up good.
they had two teachers
to every room. sometimes three.
they had a good system so when you walked in, everything looks cool.
The problem I had was that they did not show affection to the children enough.
They did not show them care to these small children who are being left.
one time I picked up this little boy who was crying
the owner came and just chewed me up one side down the other.
he said you are going to have every child in here wanting you to pick them up.
I said, no,
this child was crying and needed some comfort,
what is your problem.
they separate them by age group?
that's one thing that was important.
the babies that didn't walk in one room.
The ones that were starting to walk in one room.
Then they had the, year olds, upper fours, lower fours, upper fives, lower fives. just like that.
they really did separate them well.
It was just the teachers themselves.
It sounds like to me concern would be to make sure that they are loving people.
that they're not,
Affectionate people that they're, they're kind of par ,
Their system,
may be parents themselves or something.
system great
caring just wasn't there.
The one woman the babies. I worked with her
she was fabulous.
She loved them babies,
she loved them and cared for them.
every one of the others that I saw was just screaming and yelling and, would make me a nervous wreck,
I think that's probably a really important thing because you can have doctorates and P H D's and all that kind of thing and, know all the technical stuff,
if they don't reach out and touch the kids, then that doesn't do any good.
these kids are just in a day care center all day
and, with type of emotional,
they're just there.
Going through this routine,
An ,
which is lousy.
group that we had was kind of interesting.
The other one we went to it was a husband and wife team
we knew them from other associations
it was kind of interesting because she was kind of the strict one,
I think, put her arm around the kids and talk to them and stuff,
he was actually demonstrative type.
The more loving
he would, laugh with the kids and play with the kids
was kind of interesting to see it was actually the man in the group did that side of it.
An ,
you don't see that much.
they had a really nice balance.
We liked that one.
In fact, it was called Humpty Dumpty Play School or something,
That's cute.
some of the teaching things
they had,
was important.
that has to be with a day care center.
I think they used the,
you probably heard you stand in front of the clock and get your power back to control yourself.
I've never heard of that.
a new one,
on me.
I can't remember what they call it actually
just stand them in front of a clock
it has a second hand that goes around.
they have to stand there,
what's our topic?
Do we pay too much?
do we?
What do you do?
I guess that,
it all depends really on what kind of bracket you're in.
My tax bracket pretty high up there.
maximum tax bracket.
I think that we're paying too much
I don't have any children.
I pay a lot of property taxes.
use an awful lot of city services.
it's like all the time
just to make enough money to pay the taxes.
there's so many people who want ((dib)) of the federal money
or the state money or whatever it is
I just,
I end up feeling like I'm paying too much in taxes.
How about you?
Do you pay too much?
I can't really complain.
I'm a student,
as a co op at, Georgia Tech Research Institute.
I'm going to get back in taxes
when you
of my parents is still claiming me.
when you go out into the, when you go out into the working world
changes quickly.
I'm sure .
you look at your paycheck
you go, my gosh where did it all go .
have you pay a lot of in ta ,
have you been out working and then gone back to school
go directly from high school college?
I went,
I did work, (( )) for some time
I didn't make enough money to really make,
To worry about it.
too much of a difference.
been active politics concerning this?
Have you worked on political action committees or something like that?
I haven't.
haven't done any of that type of work myself.
every once in a while when I hear up here in D C area, one of the radio stations has been talking about Congress,
Congress has added too towards the Members Bank there,
there's a bank that they all bank with,
I guess it went defunct recently.
one of the Congressmen written in the last three years a thousand bad checks.
the taxpayers float him a loan for bad checks,
no interest, no repayment schedule.
it's causing quite a stir up here,
because we're so close to D C anyway.
It's really kind of curious to watch this thing occur.
I think we pay too much.
look at my paycheck
I make,
let's see.
They take out in state and federal taxes
I think I pay forty two percent.
Forty two cents out of every dollar I make goes to the government,
they charge me sales tax
they charge me gasoline taxes,
(( )) taxes.
they charge me all these others,
it's just too expensive.
I can't believe that
just thankful that I don't get all the government that I pay for.
You know what I mean?
used, student loans and things like that that were guaranteed by the government?
I haven't.
pays for my tuition.
haven't made use of that.
What are you studying down there?
that sounds like a field.
Everybody says that .
Heavy science.
Are you in the research or anything like that
is it more, applied physics?
gotten too terribly much into my major yet.
degree I'm getting is physics.
There's a different one for applied physics
I guess you could call it more straight stuff
than applied.
you can figure out how we can stop this inertia that's,
(( )) come rolling towards, whatever it's rolling toward.
I doubt about that.
is America, are we steep compared to most countries?
Actually, I don't think we are.
I don't think so either.
I know the taxes are a lot higher.
they do have socialized medicine and things like that.
I know I was reading in the paper I believe yesterday that, they're talking,
maybe it was on the radi ,
I don't think anybody pays too little.
I would tend to agree very highly.
I think that we're all paying a little bit too much taxes and not seeing too much good come out of it.
Do you get hit up for local taxes there?
we sure do.
Here in Indiana county income tax, state income tax,
we pay five percent sales tax,
you name it, they tax it.
you get the whole smorgasbord.
That's right
actually live in New Hampshire
tax free or die.
huh .
Which is probably pretty nice,
I'll bet that means your state sales tax is pretty high.
actually there's no sales tax in New Hampshire either.
There's no sales tax either?
what there is, is very high property taxes because that's how they fund schools and everything.
The only problem is I work in Massachusetts,
they hit me up for the five percent there.
it's only a state tax here, no local.
((We've)) got a five percent sales tax.
the problem is that I'm paying state tax even if I don't live here.
at least on things like stock options and things like that, they don't tax me.
that's not too bad.
really think that, here in Indiana at least we pay just too much tax.
I worked in a factory, last summer
on the average, I was losing twenty percent of every paycheck to taxes
I don't feel that I really get a whole lot of return from that.
I don't utilize government welfare services.
Of course, I drive on the roads
I, went to the schools and stuff,
I really feel I'm just getting overtaxed.
I'd consider twenty percent lucky because feds, I actually hit the thirty one bracket
this year, which was no fun.
that's not any fun.
also, then you figure out seven or eight percent for F I C A
which is taxes
where ((you)),
most people forget about them, because always get your F I C A back at the end of the year.
a five percent surtax, I'm paying forty percent tax.
which is just outrageous
a lot of it,
if you look at the way the government is run these days, it just seems like a lot of it's going to waste.
I think certainly are some things where you need infrastructure
you need
you n ,
((there are)) things government does better,
I ((think)) government does a better space program
than you're going to get out of private individuals,
I think, you look at things like, tax subsidies to tobacco farmers
Right .
because Jesse Helms wants it that way
That's right,
got to keep those farmers happy.
just tremendous amounts of,
so much of it, is now just going to service debt or
is going into programs that,
a fat.
I think the military is really fat.
I think that a lot of H E W services, although they're providing necessary services, have too much fat in them.
is just way too much bureaucracy
so much of that tax money is going just to keep that bureaucracy running, keep the paper shuffling around
instead of real, good programs.
spend a fortune for things like V A hospitals
then you look at how well they're managed,
I don't think we're getting our money's of there.
I think it's all going bureaucrats.
a lot of it's feeding that.
I really, I'm really thinking a lot about this, the economy and questions like that just the whole,
it seems like everything is really screwy right now as far as goes and whole economy in general
our taxes just are going to keep rising no matter what happens
especially when you've got the Bush administration who has increased government expenditures, beyond what any other President since World War Two has done
be ,
he supposedly,
between him and Reagan,
Right ,
((The great communicator)),
I just read something that, two thirds or three quarters, I'm not exactly sure of our national debt created during the Reagan Bush era
they think,
who are fiscally conservative.
they go ((and say)), I'm not c ,
Congress, they're the fault for it.
Right .
the other thing is, it's tricky, though,
like in New Hampshire, they say, all right, let's cut the military budget.
then, you lose half your jobs in New Hampshire
you lose,
((Grotten)) Connecticut goes,
tricky to balance ((that stuff)) off, because then you hurt,
if people lose their jobs, then they become a load
they're not contributing taxes.
That's right.
very hard to say, this is what we should cut.
it's really,
that is the,
especially is really a Catch twenty two
(( )).
double whammy, because like you say, if you cut defense, that's great,
that's going to lower our national expenditures,
then you're going to have people on welfare
they're not
Who aren't contributing.
putting taxes in.
in our,
I'm glad I'm not the one who has to come up with these policies.
what's very funny is in our town meeting they were v ,
this guy this proposal which, unfortunately violates New Hampshire constitution
for our local town to line item their taxes.
They say I want to pay for this and this and this and this and this.
Course, the only problem with that is then nobody paying for the necessary services they don't use.
That's right.
((Before)) the one will take,
let's see,
I guess, I can start.
trying to find one now because
Are you really?
our family's growing.
I'm looking at, something larger than what we have.
We've got, an eighty four Charger that's about gone and eighty nine Horizon.
I'm looking for something, littler
which are both kind of small.
we were thinking mini van for a while
we're looking at, some just four door, five passenger sedans
as well.
Are you looking for an American car
you open to buying foreign cars?
I don't really have a preference either way I guess.
I guess the American cars had a bad reputation
I haven't had any real substantial problems with the
ones I've had.
Personally, I have a Japanese car right now,
I really like it a lot.
I think the Japanese really build good cars
I know that kind of rubs against the grain right now in the whole, buy American, keep American auto workers working right now,
I feel that the Japanese have really produced a much higher quality product than our, car manufacturers have for a while.
If I were to buy another car, partial to buying another Japanese car,
I would also look at American cars,
when I bought the car that I bought now, I did that also
I just felt that the Japanese car was a much better product.
e ,
if I were,
even if it's just details, it seems like,
I j ,
there's a door seal that
you have to take it back every once in a while.
It's clearly just design problem there.
it is.
I'm kind of,
right now,
the next car I buy is going to be sort of a sports car.
I would really like to have a sports car.
, have a family,
I don't need mini van or such to, haul people around in.
I'm looking for more two passenger car that,
like a Miata or something like that?
I like the Miata,
I don't like it enough to buy it.
I would buy something,
car that I really like right now is an Eagle Talon, which is an American car.
something along that lines.
I have economy car right now, which is okay,
I think like to move on to something a little better.
((That's)) interesting.
I guess probably the factors we'd use to compare are a little different because I look for, size and
safety, and then mileage.
when I bought the car that I bought, I was looking for mileage,
I was looking for, dependability and something that was going to last a long time. return worth that money.
in terms of computer terminology, I look at, price performance and things like that.
And then a little bit at life expectancy, I guess,
depends on pay initially.
That's right.
I've got a hundred and twenty five thousand miles on the Charger.
it was my wife's car that she brought into the marriage
she got just a commute between Cincinnati and Dayton.
had to replace the friction plate and the transmission at thirty thousand miles,
the other ninety four thousand have been just fine ,
with it,
one or two American cars I think,
they were okay.
I had a Pontiac once
I never had a problem with it,
my mother had a Dodge at one point
had driven it a few times
I really did not feel would buy a Dodge
actually, I had Dodge Omni at one point
that was, I think, what really prejudiced me against American cars because I did not feel that it was a very quality, car.
I guess you'd have to say, if I was looking, I would definitely be looking for a foreign car.
That's interesting.
hard to beat some of the,
I guess, in particular, we're looking at ninety one Corsica, buy back at a, they say G M sponsored auction,
I think they're obliged to have these things because Hertz and Avis and those folks have it in their contract that
they can sell it back to G M used it for six months and put
twelve or fifteen thousand miles,
on it
you can get those for eight thousand bucks if you,
Which is a good deal.
I guess,
ninety two's, granted, but the new ones,
fourteen to sixteen is what they go for
on the lot,
all the depreciation has been taken off
dealer comes out okay
kind of hit the, I don't know what kind of hit they take on it,
sounds like everybody's had their chance to make their money off it
I'm sure they did.
I don't know,
we keep looking at that mini van.
It's just,
we can get Caravan
twelve, five
that's a little bit more than we want to spend right now.
it's interesting,
I don't know,
it seems to be,
Julie, are you in a situation where you'd soon need to deal with, special care for elderly?
I don't know.
My grandfather is ninety two years old.
he is still living by himself.
My grandmother died a couple of years ago .
he doesn't want move away.
He lives in a little farmhouse on a farm.
he recently had to have an operation
he just really doesn't want to go to a nursing home.
Is he able to, still do everything himself pretty well?
he was until this operation.
He has arthritis.
now I don't really think he's doing that well.
aunts and uncles live near him.
I have one aunt that really looks after him a lot.
my great grandfather was put in a nursing home when he was a hundred and three.
died six weeks after they put him in the home.
I'm sure that kind of thing would influence feelings.
for a lot of people it really is the decision of, do they still have some of their life left.
I'm sure, a lot of people going into a nursing home it's like saying my life is over
I'm just here for the rest of the stay .
guess most of the time when I think about somebody going into a nursing home, it's more a case of where they are not able to look after their day to day needs.
they look after a lot of things
there's some of the day to day needs that they just are not able to deal with physically anymore.
I know grandparents were in a nursing home.
They generally were able to have someone care for them at home
they died .
they were all, goodness, younger than your grandparents .
they were in their eighties. That type of thing .
I did, I guess,
when I think nursing home I do think of people that are not able to care of themselves physically. ,
I just don't think that nursing homes really do a very good job.
difficult part.
I think what they often get used as is, almost like a very high level or long term care similar to a hospital.
I know, here in Saskatchewan, we have our hospital care (( )) the care actually for the older people graded
a level four type of care would be someone that really requires long term hospital care. Generally are not able to look after great extent, physically .
Often times they even have mental difficulty with senility or Alzheimer's Disease or physical and mental handicaps. where they really require twenty four hour supervision of some kind . Even though
it may be minimal .
I think that it can be helpful in that, it gets people the level of physical care they need.
I don't,
at least, I think some nursing homes do that.
I think a lot of nursing homes really, are guilty of neglect.
it happens more in areas where it's, I guess, a broad social medical system where, there's government medical care and that kind of thing.
If it's the lot where it's funded by the individuals
I guess that's sort of my lack of understanding.
I think that a majority of the places in the U S, there is some government aid available,
the majority ((of it)) is to the availability of the individual to pay .
if you're not able to look after yourself, then you have to rely,
Recently graduated from high school. Meaning like, three or four years ago.
I'm a senior college now.
I can't really talk too much about the problems with, public education in detail because the school system I went to was, really superb even though it was a public school
I feel that my,
I'm a junior in college now.
I go to Tech, Georgia Tech?
I got a friend who goes there, by the way .
I want to to you about that afterward,
Okay .
the high school I went to a good one also.
guess you could say one of the problems with the public education system is the disparity between different schools.
the one I went to was, I'm sure lot nicer than, a lot of the inner city schools and
the things around Atlanta.
it's a)) more or less a suburban school system?
was true for mine too.
although I I'm sure to some extent, that money is part of the problem in the disparity,
that's the biggest part of it.
What d ,
think that, I know that in my town, parents, they're valued education.
that's true.
the students were, to some extent, motivated to learn.
I'm also
)) .
places where, the economy is really bad, they might, be more tempted quit school and get jobs and that kind of thing because they need the, money to put food on the table and stuff like that. More than they would , in areas where they
that's true.
I think, even more than that, even, if you drop out in high school
you should still be able to read ,
That's true.
Which sounds like,
now I think maybe it's started changing in the past few years because, they have these, sort of tests you have to take before you get
a diploma.
certainly before that, there were people that, would graduate from high school and could barely read.
that's just sort of inexcusable
you can't really,
I just can't even picture how that could happen.
except maybe to someone whose, really badly learning, disabled or something.
these people obviously weren't.
That's hard for me to say since I didn't,
I didn't really grow,
when I went to elementary school wasn't in a great area
started learning to read when I was in kindergarten,
I guess I can't really
I can't say what it would be like to, grow up in a really oppressed region .
I guess environment and attitude towards school and learning is different for the (( )) people.
I think that's almost a bigger factor,
than anything else probably.
people just,
I guess to try get some kind of motivation to learn
again, I don't,
((they got to)) know how qualified, (( ))
I think it'd be interesting
spend a couple of days just looking around an inner city school. of maybe from elementary through, high school.
just sort of to get a feel for what it's like.
I think that'd be an interesting experience.
I haven't done that .
can't say that I have either.
think that, public education in general I think can work.
I think it's a good thing.
heard some, I've heard statistics and things compare a public education to a private education. the same, income groups.
If you compare people sent their kids to private schools and did send their kids to private
I think they compare well.
really think I could have, done much better than I did in the school system I was in.
I, my schools, there,
I have a lot of
it seemed I got into high school, they had a lot of, (( )) accelerated programs and all kinds of
stuff like that.
makes a big difference
I wondered when they're taking classes people that interested in subject and stuff like that.
in the,
once you starting in eighth grade all the way through high school, there were four levels.
I guess still three.
Then in high school it changed into four levels instruction in the major subjects.
actually I think that works pretty well.
(( )) makes,
Okay .
How are you?
You want to go ahead and start talking about whether you budget ?
I, I feel like, I am from Mars.
I'm fifty years old
I've been divorced for, eighteen years.
I've two kids and all.
I've never had a budget
I don't, do any planning
I don't know,
(( )) have a long term financial plan.
I don't try to control my expenses.
glad you're a stranger.
That sounds kind of like me.
really, I, I, I'm curious how other people live.
maybe we should start with you .
What do you do?
About the same thing.
Maybe they're going to arrest us both.
I'm even in worse shape because I have eight children
we live from hand to mouth .
We hope that there's enough money at the end of the month to pay for the bills and if there's not, then we (( )) due for the next month.
A couple of times we've tried some things
they worked
I'm not disciplined enough to keep doing it.
The best program we ever had is at the beginning of the month we my check and divided it out into envelopes
and then paid for the expenses out of that envelope
when the envelope was empty , then you didn't have any more money to spend in that area.
that worked out real well cause we didn't have to keep writing down what we'd spent.
It was just that when that was empty, you knew you were out of money.
we did that pretty successfully for about three months
we started borrowing from one envelope to put it in the other envelope
in about two months we were back to doing the same thing we always do.
I had a part time job around, gosh, fifteen years ago, seventy six,
this was a sort of a career shift at the time
I was willing to take a half time job to do that.
I actually did,
my bank account would,
I kept bouncing checks, just at the end of the month
had miscalculated.
didn't keep a balance .
It's one of the problems .
I never had to in the past.
I always kept plenty of money in my checking account,
when you're only earning half the salary. Even though I wasn't spending much money, would just,
things would get to tight.
sometimes what I would do is keep a piece of paper in my wallet
every time spent money, cash mostly, I would, write it down
so I could see at the end of a month how much I spent on food so I could do better planning.
I would forget to write the things down
I, I don't know if I ever went as far as three months or not in keeping that kind of data.
I certainly haven't done that in sixteen years or whatever.
I even find now with the automatic tellers, I'll go take money out of that
I forget to take that out of my checking account.
I leave a little bit of a slush fund in my checking account so the balance showing in the checking account is always somewhat different that what's really there.
I figure that gives me room for the mistakes I make.
I have to say that,
let's see, at this point on, I don't run out of money.
I don't,
someday, if I were to get remarried I might want to buy a house which requires lots of money which I don't have
I think my strategy I may, is to, is to not spend money.
I don't have expensive tastes.
I don't go out.
I buy a car,
the last car I got rid of I'd had,
it was nineteen years old.
were embarrassed for me.
a good car
. it was)) still running.
it was great.
mechanics loved it because Buick
it just wouldn't stop.
just didn't feel the need for a new car.
It isn't like I couldn't afford one.
now, don't,
I tend to eat expensive food.
I don't mind buying a good steak
for me, I only do that every week or,
maybe once a month.
you buy tenderloin steak, it costs outrageous, twelve dollars a pound.
You buy less than half a pound so it's six or seven dollars.
To me, I realize if you have eight kids you're not going to run out and do that.
Not very often .
saying as a single person, a drop in the bucket.
if you're extravagant on how you buy food, it doesn't add up. to super expensive restaurants, which I don't care to go to.
That's right.
that's, I think, one of the reasons I don't need to budget is that I don't have to hold myself back from buying that expensive thing because I can't afford it, because I'm not interested in that expensive thing.
((A lot of)),
You want to go first? .
you can start .
one of the things they talked about was, wh , what do we think about a judge making the decision?
I really don't agree with that .
I think that the trial by jury is better, having a unanimous decision rather than to have one person be responsible.
I don't think that they could be objective in every case, every time.
know what I mean?
th , this topic is kind of mute.
no way.
couldn't survive in a trial system without a jury.
objectionable in every case.
That's it.
every person has their opinions
that's why jury selection is often very difficult.
feel the other thing too,
they were saying, what new ways change the system.
really think that, we spend a lot of time, going through appeal after appeal after appeal after appeal,
you go to a trial by jury and especially if a person has confessed. If they have been caught, point blank in the crime.
There's, no question
it's beyond a reasonable doubt.
all these things.
we've gone through this over and over again.
They shouldn't allow an appeal.
it can go on for ten, twenty,
think this is a little ridiculous.
huh .
I think the only people who benefit from that are the lawyers.
that's right.
I work for a law firm (( )).
I think that the lawyers have caused a lot of the problems exist today. With plea bargaining.
if someone is ((ill)),
is a different story.
Plea bargaining is something completely different.
actually prevents trials. Or at least speeds them up.
I know.
That's (( )) what I'm saying.
I think the whole criminal system is messed up that regard.
people who commit, crimes that they,
I don't know how it works exactly
they get lesser sentences
I understand that the jails are full of people,
and that they have to do something.
I think that the reason they are full is because they know that they can get away with it.
know what I'm saying?
That don't have, a lot of states don't have capital punishment.
We do .
think they should.
think if a person is guilty of taking someone's life and like you say, there's no doubt whatsoever. Like drunk drivers that kill people
caught dead to rights.
just think that they've taken a life
they should pay for it with their life.
When you're saying as far as the appeal, procedure was concerned.
We just have the case,
sure you've probably heard of Marion Berry.
his appeal denied two days before his sentence was up .
his appeal was denied
two days later he got out of jail .
It, ,
For cocaine possession.
that was absurd .
I know (( )).
the appeal process should have dragged on that long for a six month sentence.
I don't know.
what would you do to change it? To make it better?
the, appeal procedure is the only thing I can possibly think of.
like I said, as far as removing of the jury and having the judge sentence, that's absurd.
There's no way that could work.
I don't agree with that at all.
Imagine the guilt that person would have.
(( ))
burned out.
there's no possible way that you could, feel good about yourself.
If you had to do something like that, day after day.
No one would want the job .
Not really.
like I said, has their opinions about every case.
you think people should have a trial is they're caught dead to rights like,
feel that entitled to a trial by jury.
that right s ,
supposing I come up to you and I just point blank kill you.
were there witnesses?
In other words you're saying that, have to find out whether it's premeditated or
what the circumstances were.
That remove the jury regardless of the case.
you could have fifty people in audience watching
a murder take place
still, there's still mitigating circumstances .
Okay, Mary.
latest one I've seen, had to do with basically a manhunt,
called MANHUNTER, actually.
guy, apparently had mental disfunction in which he needed to go out and just slay people. just, kill them as much blood guts as possible.
how awful .
It was not one that I picked,
did show some interesting things about the F B I
the characters to get him were F B I people
few good things that were in it, it did show, a lot about the F B I. About the training, how they go through training and how they try develop, a mental picture of who they're looking for before they go out and do it and all the different ways they go about doing that.
pretty telling about the F B I and their procedures.
I wonder how truthful all of that was or whether there was fiction.
imagine a lot of it had to be fictional just to keep the F B I, going, I guess.
they keep it rather secretive,
yes .
the most recent movie I saw, I'm afraid was,
of them actually.
the RAIN MAN was one.
that was great one.
Wasn't that fabulous,
I loved it.
and DRIVING MISS DAISY.
I haven't seen that one yet,
I need to go see it.
you need to see that.
That is the most heart rendering story of relationships between two people.
Two diametrically opposed people from the stand point that one was Jewish and one was black
this all took place in the South.
normally never the twain shall meet.
You bet, especially in the South.
really was a fantastic movie.
The acting was phenomenal.
got some Academy Awards, didn't it.
Jessica Tandy won best actress
that's right.
might have one best picture, too.
it did,
it did.
Just as RAIN MAN, with Dustin Hoffman,
That was,
was tremendous and Tom Cruise.
think it was more a lesson for Tom Cruise than anything else in terms how to act from Dustin Hoffman,
what hype was that Tom Cruise learned so much from Dustin Hoffman.
it must have been great just being with him a daily basis and seeing how he prepares lines and all that stuff.
a good bit of that was filmed right in Cincinnati.
Which is just forty five miles in a suburb of Dayton.
the Kmart there? .
we do have Kmart here,
you better believe it.
Isn't there a Kmart everywhere?
so funny,
he had to,
was it Kmart.
He had to buy his underwear at Kmart.
That was hilarious.
I guess the, the first, the first, scene in that movie that really got my attention, concerning disease and all that was when he, dropped the toothpicks,
he was able to count the number of toothpicks just by a mental image.
there are people, referred to as savants also,
who can do most phenomenal things
everyone feels they are totally retarded.
that's the way might seem outwardly,
That's right.
boy there's a lots going on in there .
It's amazing .
the, I think best thing about RAINMAN was way that they put together real awfulness of the disease,
they balanced it with the wonderfulness of it,
you need work with it, certainly a daily basis but work with it toward a good end.
toward winning in Las Vegas, for example.
the warmth that developed between them
again it, I think was a picture of relationships.
Again the relationship, between the two, that, never would have occurred, by accident.
so impressed with that movie
I saw it three times.
Did you.
you, so much about that movie, just because really a lot of personal background.
have brother myself older
he's not,
of course, serious is wrong with him
we have gone through lapses a relationship,
for no real, direct reason, I guess, get into, a really good relationship for a while and then, back and forth
was really able relate to relationship aspect of the movie between the brothers.
That was neat.
that's tremendous,
good because it does make you think, about your own family.
a lot.
it did bring out a lot of thoughts between you and your brother.
No question,
he was, he's one of these guys though that doesn't really like to go see movies like that.
He likes the bang them up and shoot them up things.
huh .
was like pulling teeth to go get him see it
boy. he gave best response that I've heard him give of this type of movie for RAIN MAN.
he certainly didn't,
he only saw it one time,
he didn't go back for more,
said he enjoyed it
he at least saw it one time .
he really,
I don't know,
kind of a Dustin Hoffman fan anyway.
the movie he was disappointed that Dustin Hoffman would do this .
I'm like, come on.
Just think of what a phenomenal actor Dustin Hoffman is.
He will do that, to research it and to be able to mimic a person, with the kinds of problems that he had.
And to make it believable.
believing it,
I don't know about any body else
I'm sure everybody that saw it was believing it right along with them.
He did great.
it's just, been delightful talking with you.
you take care up there
let's hear it for the summertime.
I'm ready for it,
they're predicting some more snow for our direction.
take care.
Take care now.
Bye, bye.
Bye, bye.
Where do you get most of your news?
I watch the MACNEIL LEHRER news hour,
I subscribe to the paper on the weekends.
are you?
I'm in Dallas.
Are you in Dallas also?
I'm in San Antonio.
I get my news from a combination of sources.
I take the paper every day
I read it on the way in to work carpool.
morning news before I leave for work.
usually over lunch, there'll be a big topic of conversation on something
from the news.
I normally find that probably the most, news hungry of my friends,
normally talk about the news at lunch.
find that I have to only subscribe to the paper on the weekend, simply because I used to get it during the week
I would always end up arriving at work late, because I would always end up skimming the headlines, spending too much time,
reading it in the morning.
I have to cut myself down to the weekend, plus after work.
the MACNEIL LEHRER news hour is on public television
I enjoy that quite a bit.
one of the women that I work with, her husband is Iranian.
here lately with all the Middle Eastern news we've had some very interesting conversations over lunch.
I will admit I work with, someone who's Iranian,
he definitely has a very different slant on the news.
He's very, very skeptical of the news media,
I will admit I'm reasonably skeptical also.
much more so.
It's sort of interesting though, because he does bring much, different perspective with all the Gulf goings on,
He was always speaking in terms of, American imperialism reasserting itself.
I suppose it's a different attitude that we normally don't hear in the country.
huh .
I like the print news
much better than the television news because television news tends to sensationalize.
I understand that the MacNeil Lehrer probably doesn't.
They, tend to spend quite a bit of time on one story.
They will have maybe two or three main stories and just spend a very large amount of time.
Sort of like the, A B C's NIGHTLINE.
I guess they only normally stick with just the one, story.
can do a much better job since they don't have to chop it into little two minute stories.
They don't report on every murder and shooting that happened every little town.
It's very much national interest news.
A lot of times they end up, with these panels of experts
they go back and forth, where everyone's giving some opinions
sometimes that,
I don't know the value of that, because I saw plenty of jokes editorial cartoons about all the retired generals,
making a living during Gulf War.
I've been getting a kick out of those lately.
Although, .
only twenty five,
I've never actually been through a period of war
I don't know anyone in the military
I don't have a lot of background knowledge in, military strategy weaponry, all that kind of stuff.
I thought the generals were very interesting.
when they started to speculate, saw that for what is was,
and thought all of these guys don't know what's going on.
I thought they were interesting,
they shed some light on what was going on for me.
I will admit it's interesting.
I'm twenty six.
I don't have any more experience in that than you.
it was very interesting that it seemed like some of the commentators had their axe to grind,
there were some that were screaming for air power,
there were some that were saying the air power wasn't going to do it.
they seemed to mold the events to their view of the world, which I suppose just about everyone does,
these guys had national soap box to stand on express this view.
one of the best television news shows that I saw during the war was a show on a Saturday morning on A B C,
it was for children
it was hosted by Peter Jennings,
it was so interesting because they were relating the war to these children in their studio,
they also had children calling in live from all over the country and asking questions.
had all their correspondents in the different areas, in Saudi Arabia, and Israel, all.
They had them all, on,
I don't know what you'd call it other than on line.
They had them all on hold
if a child asked a question that the person in Jerusalem could best answer, they would cut to that person,
that person would answer the question.
It was just very informative and interesting,
I was real impressed at how A B C handled, translating,
the war for children.
I didn't see anything like that, although I did,
I guess one thing that I found sort of interesting,
this is getting a little off the topic,
there was a big push with the local T V stations to have little hot lines with counselors
help parents learn how to talk about their war with their children.
I thought that was a really unusual thing.
our local H E B stores here,
I don't know if it's H E B statewide or whatever,
they have videos that,
I don't know if they still have them,
they were free rental,
videos, that had something to do with the war.
Ju ,
it was,
with the children's aspect?
It was something for children, that had several advertisements on television pushing parents going and, getting the video and watching it with their children and discussing it
and that kind of thing.
I suppose that is a valuable service.
Again not having, lived through another war, I don't know if that's a common thing that people thought of,
if that was
a new concern with people.
back during the Viet Nam conflict that no one have the guts enough to call a real war
type of technology just wasn't at people's disposal.
That's true.
That's true.
I don't think there's ever been a war that's been so thoroughly covered by the news.
probably more importantly, one that lasted short enough people's interest didn't flag too badly.
I tell you what,
the first three days, I was glued to the television.
I will admit the same thing.
would come home and flip on MacNeil Lehrer
they would run these extended two, three hour versions of the program
was just, I was horrified and fascinated by what I was seeing.
I tell you what.
war start ,
let's see, was it a Wednesday or Thursday?
Must have been Thursday,
Friday night up until two o'clock in the morning, sitting, right dead center in front of my television just watching practically with my mouth hanging open.
I was watching C N N,
switch back to one of their Israel bureaus,
the people would be standing there in gas masks,
you'd be hearing the sirens,
it was just,
I was amazed.
didn't have that experience.
don't have cable
pretty much limited to P B S, which they did a very good job.
I've got one question for you.
say you take the newspaper.
found the newspaper situation in Dallas very interesting.
We've got the one weaker paper, the TIMES HERALD, and then the MORNING NEWS, which has a very strong subscription.
Does San Antonio ha ,
you said San Antonio, right?
Do you have just one paper,
do you have several?
There are two,
they're pretty close.
the one that I picked is more similar in format to the newspaper,
I grew up near Houston
there are two major newspapers there that run pretty much neck and neck,
the one I picked here had the same format as the one that my parents took as I was growing up. the same type of typeface on the headline and that kind of stuff.
It's piddly stuff to pick a newspaper over,
I enjoy,
the comics are better in this newspaper.
This newspaper has the far side and the comics that I enjoy
the other one has some weird ones that I've never heard of.
actually take both newspapers on the weekends.
Do you?
I figure I'm only taking on the weekend,
I can afford that.
find the news reporting in the MORNING NEWS to be better,
I sort of have a liberal political slant,
the MORNING NEWS just has an incredibly conservative editorial, outlook.
I get the TIMES HERALD just to balance that out a little bit.
My fiancee takes probably six Sunday papers.
He takes both San Antonio papers, an Austin paper, both Houston papers,
I guess he takes seven, the San Marcos paper and the New Braunsfel paper,
he's a football coach at Southwest Texas State University,
he's getting all the sports sections.
he has these stacks of Sunday newspapers that go unread ...
I guess really have a problem with capital punishment.
I'm not really sure what the exact, specifications are for Texas.
I know that they, have capital punishment for certain crimes,
that's probably the way I feel about it it kind of depends on the crime that's committed.
My belief all my life, I guess, has been if you take someone else's life, then you automatically ((are)) giving up, yours in place of it .
I don't,
seems to be a lot of controversy about that .
I tend to agree with you,
probably pretty similar views on it,
one of the things I understand so much of the controversy
do also, myself, believe in capital punishment,
really irks me to see so much effort put into preventing someone being put to death by the State when they so callously and usually without even thinking or without any concern, end somebody else's life, and in a lot of cases several people's lives.
That's true .
I guess, probably two or three different types views as far as the controversy goes.
I can see where if a life was taken by accident or, I don't know what you'd call it, not premeditated or, I guess primarily by accident, there may be cases where the death penalty is not called for,
I lean towards,
if it's premeditated or if it's, kind of a habitual people, may get into, then I guess I don't really have a problem with it .
kind of the way I feel.
you've got a guy been to trial and has been in and out of jail, basically three time loser for the twelfth time, and he goes out and kills somebody, he's not going to be reformed,
he's not going to get any better,
not going to, it's just not going to get any better.
the only thing,
a lot of people have the opinion have capital punishment,
give them life in jail
I could go along with that, I could be assured that it would be their natural life in jail and not parole after ten,
or twelve years.
I think that's what aggravates a lot of people, is somebody does get a life sentence in place of the death penalty,
they wind up back on the streets after five years or six years or like the kid on the news tonight out in Mesquite who was out in six months. .
just our criminal system is just so, I guess, overloaded,
the problem is not so much with the prison system,
cops are out there doing their job enforcing the laws,
the prison system are just,
they're trying to cope with them,
, the thing about capital punishment
a lot of people don't think it would be a deterrent, future crime,
the way it is now, it's not.
the State of Texas, for example, execute somebody twice a year.
no kind of deterrent because got literally hundreds of people on death row, many of them who have been there for literally for ten or fifteen years
on death row,
certainly no kind of deterrent,
I would tend to agree with anybody who says right now that not because it's not.
it's not.
You think of your chances of getting the death penalty after a crime are really pretty slim right now.
you can,
probably spend, a lot of time, or maybe eventually, just waiting it out,
that's where a lot of aggravation comes, I think, these guys spend so much time in the appeal process or just in the waiting process,
they may spend years,
the last I heard it was costing ten, twenty, thirty thousand dollars a year,
(( )).
to keep these guys waiting.
a girl I work with, our secretary, as a matter of fact,
father was murdered, her father and three other guys up here in Sherman.
guy, that they tried and convicted and sentenced him to death, he's been on death row for like eight years.
was her father, got killed, just cold blooded murder, him and three other people,
still, for some reason, guy's sentence has not been carried out,
he's sitting on death row for eight years after having killed four people,
the State still can't bring itself
carry it out.
this guy.
It sort of takes the justice out of the justice system.
It does,
it really does,
She, and they have to go back,
occasionally, she has to write letters to the parole board and, lawyers,
ever so often she mentions, she's got to do something else, write another letter,
or do something.
It's just,
It should be over and done with.
she should be getting on with her life, that part behind her,
yet, kind of tied to her the way it is now.
it is.
she winds up being victim,
day after day after day.
A victim,
not only the crime, but also indirectly by that,
indirect involvement.
it's ridiculous.
She's an emotional victim .
cops ((that)) are out doing the work ,
day by day have got to have a lot of frustration when they see all their work,
basically go out the window.
man, couldn't be a cop very reason, because they do.
criminal gets right back out
the cop's just got to go back do his thing all over again, because so many of the crimes done by repeat offenders.
they are.
that's about five minutes,
unless you've got something else,
No .
It's a pleasure talking with you.
All right,
Ron, we'll see you later.
good bye.
Bye bye.
Tell me about your home.
it's an older home.
It was made back in the early sixties.
It's a pier beam house.
Got three bedrooms, one bath and that just makes me scream.
That's pretty tough .
What area do you live in?
I live in Houston.
I see.
Is that pretty typical for your area?
for the neighborhood I'm in,
This is one of the more established neighborhoods,
That sounds real interesting.
I live in a suburb of Dallas
I live in the basic three bedroom, two bath home.
at least, I have two bathrooms.
That's not so bad,
it's pretty typical for the area, as well.
I've always been interested in older homes, personally.
I think you can end up doing more with them, it seems like.
What about yard space?
Do you have or anything like that?
The whole lot I'm sitting on is roughly half an acre.
I see.
About half of that, about a quarter acre of that, I've got a garden.
that's nice.
I have just houses, like that.
We have a very small yard
I do have garden,
it's extremely small,
it seems like, though, for your area is sort of different.
In a big city like that most houses, I would think, would be sort of like what we live in. Just a basic tract house.
in the, newer neighborhoods and development communities, the houses are so close together,
if your neighbor is having an argument you can here it blow for blow.
That's exactly right.
That's the way we are.
that we really enjoy here, is we have a hot tub in the back.
quite a few parties,
seems like everyone that lives around us, ends up, hearing every conversation that goes on outside with everyone.
that's true
that is one thing that I don't enjoy about it, is the houses are too close together.
it's fine for now,
hopefully, eventually, we'll move in a larger home.
The only thing that I don't like also is the rooms are so small.
it's very difficult to arrange furniture and things like that,
Are your rooms in your house bigger since it's a sixties home?
it seems like then, that they built the homes much larger
is that true?
they've got better closet space.
(( )) new houses that I've seen.
That's really it.
That's a plus.
At least we do have three walk in closets here.
maybe not so typical,
It helps a bunch.
It really does, except when you have to fill them up
you get those Visa bills in.
anything else
can you compare yourself to any thing around there.
Most of the neighborhood I'm in is pretty typical.
This whole neighborhood was built between sixty and sixty five.
Everybody has got a (( )), pretty good size yard,
I got probably the biggest,
if not the biggest yard, I've got pretty close to it,
in the entire neighborhood.
That's nice.
That is nice.
too, the only bad thing, too, is that then you have to keep up,
you have to,
the yard to deal with
I enjoy that though.
Do you.
You must have more time I have.
I'm sitting out here right now.
We had this terrible rain
I'm looking at the yard and seeing how tall the grass has gotten
it seems like
I almost wish I was in an apartment or something.
It's rained (( )).
I don't know, do we just terminate this or do you have to talk for a certain amount of time?
Do you know?
we can,
after you go to somewhere between five and ten minutes, they'll get a little master recording ((on)),
can you tell me anything else about the house .
Are you working on it?
do people around that area seem to do a lot of renovation?
This entire neighborhood, everybody keeps the places up real nice.
the town that I came from a, older town,
it like,
homes there are early nineteen hundreds late eighteen hundreds,
I renovated a house there
that was so much fun.
there, if you don't live in a house that's at least seventy five to hundred years old, you're just nobody, practically .
a good experience for me to learn a lot of discipline
(( )) was considered typical for that area.
it was quite a change for me to come to a house like that now that's just, a very square little box
there's not a whole lot you can do with it.
Living in the city has some advantages.
That's true.
If given the choice, I'm getting out.
I have lived in a small town for,
town was less than ten thousand people
it was about sixty miles south of Dallas.
I didn't move out of there until I was, twenty seven
that was just,
I love the big city .
I had lived in a rural area so long
I've enjoyed it,
get kind of tough.
Its like a rat race sometimes.
That's just something I'll never adapt to.
want to be a part of the rat race.
I want to be basically just kind of left alone.
Yeah .
If I want to sit around and mess with my garden, I'll mess with my garden,
if I want to work in the flower beds,
It sounds like you enjoy working outside as well.
Very much.
I really do enjoy that.
I haven't planted anything yet
I usually have gotten flowers coming out the ((gazoo)),
haven't done that, yet.
I've had finals this week.
I'm just kind of stick in with that,
since that's over with now, maybe get this yard in shape.
Do you do a lot of gardening?
landscaping is more, than the gardening,
((in the garden)) I've got my beans, peas,
I've got some onions out,
I'm not real sure what they're going to do this year.
I never have much luck with tomatoes.
I do plant a lot of beans, because it seems like, the, bugs get on them so easily
I have a real problem with anything like pesticides or anything like that,
the only thing that I use is soap.
I water, spray the plants, because they say, supposedly, that will keep the bugs off them.
I don't have luck with that tomato plant,
I hate to spray them with anything.
what do you do?
. Do you have any tips you could give me?
my favorite one is putting on the, tomato plant (( )) dust,
that stuff has been around since the beginning of time,
That's true.
That's true.
My dad is a farmer
I've heard him talk about that forever.
I guess it works,
you have to really wash your vegetables after that
it won't make you sick.
Let's see what else do you do to your house?
I've done some rewiring on it.
Eventually, if we stay here, I'm going to have to rewire the entire house.
Do you plan on adding any rooms or,
you have enough space
you could probably do that.
is it,
I've talked about adding at least one more room and definitely adding another bath on.
Yeah .
I would think so if you only have one bathroom for three bedrooms,
that's tough.
Do you not, have a half bath.
Not even a half bath.
That's rough.
The house that I used to live in had one bath and a half.
that was even just with two people.
That was a pain.
The only thing that saves it, with the schedule I work and the schedule my wife works, we're getting ready to go to work at totally different times.
That's good.
So that. It's not like we're tripping over each other in the morning.
That could account for a lot of marital problems . I think .
You get to know each other very well if you have to share a bathroom .
It doesn't work if you're trying to shave and she's trying to put her eyeliner on
you're both fighting over the mirror.
That's right.
It does not make for a happy situation.
That's true.
do you have any children?
I've got one.
One child.
they enjoy where they're living?
he's nine months old.
he doesn't know,
I guess, he's a big help out in your garden.
He likes to dig around a little bit.
His mother comes in and says, why did you let him play in the dirt,
I guess he's enjoying himself.
That's right.
It's healthy,
why not.
He was eating the dirt,
I wouldn't worry about it.
It won't hurt them.
I was a big dirt eater, supposedly, when I was a child
I turned out okay ,
don't worry about it.
Just let him enjoy himself .
you think that you want to move away from the big city,
that's what I've always,
I was raised up in a town that was about ten thousand people.
So you're just the opposite from me.
You want to go back to that,
After we got married we to the Houston area.
are you from Texas?
You are.
it's not,
that's true
Houston, in itself, is a pretty tough place.
I'm back on.
you say you watch evenings mostly?
I watch evenings because I work all day.
I used to watch daytimes.
mainly like ALL MY CHILDREN, that kind of thing.
sometimes OPRAH and sometimes DONAHUE,
now it's mainly evenings.
Do you have any that you like well enough that you tape them when you're not going to be there?
Which ones?
I tape THIRTY SOMETHING,
and L A LAW.
Those are the two I like the best.
two they're going to change.
one they're taking,
I know.
It's going to be history, I know.
I don't know what's going to ha ,
we like L A LAW.
We don't watch THIRTY SOMETHING,
that's kind of young for us.
My husband and I are grandparents.
we don't watch, that type of show,
we like L A LAW.
We like,
We're just,
I'm sorry they're breaking the team up, because we liked all the ones that were on there.
I know.
I'm amazed.
I'm not sure I like the new ones too much.
at the ending with all the funny things happening and different things.
I just wonder they just want to go on to other projects and not be stuck in this show, since it's gone on for so long,
it looks like,
it looks like it might be one of these seven or eight year run things.
Where you kind of can spend your whole career on one show.
I know.
Of course, I guess that's not bad.
Alan Alda did it on MASH.
I know.
Isn't that funny?
It hasn't hurt him at all.
mostly like thing that lasts an hour?
I don't usually like stuff that continues.
That's why I'm surprised I like those two shows, because usually I like, stuff that just ends sort of, that don't have to,
In one hour, like QUANTUM LEAP.
have watched,
you don't have to ...
That's one of our favorites .
You don't have to have watched it last week in order to follow,
which they do at the beginning of the season,
I usually don't like that.
to grab your attention.
that's always a bummer too.
I know.
Sometimes it's better just to tape record both of them and then watch it all in one.
do that sometimes.
guess not into real heavy stuff.
L A LAW is about the heaviest thing I watch.
I'll, mostly I'm into it for relaxation,
I like things like GOLDEN GIRLS or CHEERS
Monday night is real good with me, MAJOR DAD NORTHERN EXPOSURE
what's that one with Burt Reynolds?
That type of show is what we
what, we watch.
We generally just stay on one channel of Monday night, just to watch those.
Just some of the times they're continued,
mostly they're just little vignettes.
A new one we found we really like is that DINOSAURS.
Have you seen that?
it's really funny.
They use animated,
it's not a cartoon,
it's dummies and things,
that are used,
it's really,
and robots probably.
there's always moral to each story.
what night is it on?
watched it,
the times we've seen it, it's been on night.
we've only seen it a couple of times.
the first one we saw, involved a tradition of when a reaches seventy five,
I can't remember what day they call it,
the son in laws get to throw the mother in laws when they're seventy five over a cliff .
goes on,
the son in law and mother in law are sniping at each other and all,
when it comes time for him to throw her over, teenaged son the night before tried to save her by hiding her.
she said no,
you can't do,
he in a wheelchair to hide her,
she said, "You can't do that."
"This is tradition.
This is what old people are supposed to be, thrown over cliff."
he said, "I don't understand."
real funny that they give the teenagers as the one that questions, going on.
in the end the son in law, when he did get the mother in law up to the cliff, the teenaged son throws himself in the way and says, "No, you can't do it," "Oh, well, we've got to do it. It's tradition,"
the son was, "Why?"
the end he doesn't throw her over,
he doesn't.
of course, the town thinks he's just terrible, because that has been tradition for hundreds of years and he's broken it.
we saw one when a teenage boy comes into his manhood,
they call it the night of the howling,
or something like that,
they all go out and howl, .
the son refused to do it.
he thought it was not ...
he didn't go howl?
he wouldn't go howl,
people that worked with the father ostracized him .
how funny.
It is.
it's, it's real interesting to watch the show,
relationship between the family really now,
now the mother in law lives in the house with them.
our oldest grandson is the one got us to watching it.
it really is,
it moves real fast.
It's real short,
there's always, like I say, a moral to it
It's just a half hour,
is it hour?
half hour.
all there is to it.
they ...
There's not many half hour shows,
it seems like that,
they, they're trying to liken father in there of the teenage son to JACKIE GLEASON SHOW.
the way he talks to his mother in law and so forth,
I guess maybe there are some parts of that,
I didn't really see that in there.
what I've read about it, they talk about that.
anyway, enjoyed that,
I guess mostly like the news shows too, the news magazines, like SIXTY MINUTES or TWENTY,
I watch those if I,
TWENTY or PRIME TIME LIVE or something like that, of those shows, if I can do it,
my husband likes to watch, old movies, especially war movies, sports, which I'm not,
I like sports.
I don't.
do, I like ice skating
I like, gymnastics,
and some track and field,
I'll watch snippets of baseball games
just don't have that much time to sit and watch the whole thing.
just sit and watch T V.
I'm usually doing dishes,
I may be sewing,
I know.
I always have, letter writing,
I may be working around in the room somehow,
ever just sit and,
something that comes from your old age,
I don't sit.
Idle hands are the devil's workshop .
I know.
Who has time?
I don't have time to sit, I know.
That's why I don't get to watch that much.
watch nine o'clock
I do okay, because the kids are all in bed,
before that, not much time.
at six thirty I'll watch WHEEL OF FORTUNE or something like that.
are with us, have to watch that.
We don't watch it unless they're here .
I like that.
I'll watch,
game show kind of stuff
kids will get you started on stuff like AMERICA'S FUNNIEST HOME VIDEOS.
We've wound up sending in one.
That's something I didn't think that we'd ever do .
Did you send one?
My oldest grandson pulling his tooth.
How funny.
he wouldn't let us pull it,
got to the point he was eating a pear here,
he bit into it,
it was just hanging by a thread.
tell him, it's getting ready to fall out,
he walked around the house with his down toward the floor and his mouth open, hoping it would ((fall out)), because he wouldn't let anybody pull it.
And up pull,
do you have P C s?
I have a personal computer at home.
It's an A T compatible.
I don't use it very much any more.
I used to use it quite a bit.
I also have a P C at work that I use as a terminal.
I do some P C stand alone work on it,
I can transfer data back and forth between the P C and the main frame.
What about you?
Do you own a computer?
I sort of own a computer.
We have two P C s at home,
neither one do we really own.
Are you leasing them?
both of them are sort of work related,
Loaners from work?
that's the nicer way, right.
Do you work for T I?
doing consulting right now because I just had a baby,
my husband's working at Bell Labs,
he's really from France,
these computers actually are from France.
What brand are they?
One of them's a Compaq
it's a three eighty six
I'm jealous.
and the other is actually a I B M P C compatible,
it's a three eighty six,
I guess it's twenty five,
three eight six twenty five C maybe
I don't know,
no we don't have the (( )),
(( )) we decided not to get the (( )) which is actually another loaner one too that we picked up for a consulting job that my husband was doing ,
What kind of consulting do you do?
I actually do some work, working at M I T and at NIST, National Institute of Standards and Technology
in Washington,
I worked for Dragon Systems for a while.
What kind of work do you do when you're consulting?
it depends,
it's very different in the different places,
Is it programming related?
Program related, research related,
I work in the speech field,
I do a lot metacoustic phonetics and
looking at the acoustic characteristics of speech,
I do that type of stuff typically for other people,
use the P C s to do that.
Mostly I use it for writing papers and things like that.
Word processing.
do you know Latek?
No I'm
Wo ,
not familiar with that.
Word text processing,
you can call it word processing,
I don't usually use a word processor to do it
we don't have too much standard software.
any commercially available software at all.
we don't use it for things like our accounts and addresses and things like that.
We use it more for just writing programs when we need to or, doing research, looking at the speech signal and then doing writing, and also terminal,
we connect to other computers to read our net mail and things like that.
a modem in it then.
neither one has a modem,
we have a modem.
At home
Neither one,
you have a modem that you can connect to each of them?
it's an external modem.
we have (( )).
mine I had an internal modem in it
I used it, quite a bit when I was, looking at, information on a large bulletin board sponsored by a newspaper Fort Worth
went out of town for a while,
sort of got off the, bulletin board and off of my micro completely
after a while the modem started making noises on its own using it on the computer,
I could turn a computer on,
it'd start squawking.
I finally opened up the box and took it out.
that was it.
I think that's the thirty second warning.
I didn't hear it.
Do you hear, beep in the background.
that's ambulance or something going on here, I think.
I haven't ever noticed the thirty second warning actually.
Where are you,
In Manhattan.
Are you at home now?
I'm at home.
you've got a lot of traffic noise real close.
it'd be interesting for the people that look at this signal because there's a lot of background noise that, people can hear.
it'll be interesting how much of it actually gets picked up.
often times that,
I much later than now, between sort of six, five thirty and six thirty or something like that, because the traffic outside, they honk the horn so loud I can't even hear the phone call.
What time is it now where you are?
about twenty after four.
you're an hour ahead of where I am.
I'm in Central
Central time zone.
we're Eastern.
you ever try using like Prodigy or any of those systems?
I haven't done that.
I know someone who has,
she's, very, pleased with it.
She told me some of the things you can do,
it's just very handy tool to have.
you can do a l ,
it makes things very convenient.
You can save a lot of money, too. Certainly cut down on long distance charges have in mind.
I've never tried using that,
I don't know too much about it.
What about,
use commercially available software
used Lotus.
I have used, Word Perfect
not heavy use.
I've used, D Base
I've used a substantial amount of shareware.
I haven't done much Lotus work connected with my job.
I've been through three classes
I have a great deal of respect for it.
I haven't done much word processing work with my job.
I do some
the D Base work I've done was strictly class related.
I've never used D Base,
I've heard both good things and bad things about it.
it's probably the granddaddy of most, data base management systems.
It's got some pretty strong competitors.
Some of them have reviews that are better than D Base,
think by now, it's a matter of, personal taste.
people told me that it was sort of cumbersome to use.
I can understand that very easily.
a class on, R Base and also in Paradox
both of those seem very easy to use compared to D Base.
Do you think D Base is more flexible or allows you to do more.
do you think the others are pretty much compatible these days?
I wouldn't say compatible, but
certainly comparable.
I didn't mean compatible,
I meant comparable.
My brain is going to mush.
what do you work on at T I?
I'm a computer programmer
on the I B M main frames.
I do, business data processing.
I also handle production support for the systems in my area of responsibility.
sometimes I get called late at night at home because there's a production problem,
that gives me the opportunity to, come in to work and fix it, if I can't think of
some thing to tell the trouble shooter while we're on the phone.
I also, handle most of the calls from our users and other programmers who need to find out something connected,
I guess first of all could have asked that before.
Do you have children?
Because didn't know if that would make a difference
in how you felt.
what do you think about the proposal that all young Americans should spend a year or two,
I think it's a good idea.
I think everybody put in their time so to speak good of nation and for the good of themselves.
I think it's,
would grow up and mature realize what this country's all about.
I just,
I guess family has always believed strongly in,
I had opportunities in high school,
to work in some programs,
Did you?
. Oh! .
I agree with what you said that it's,
it benefits the person doing it
so much I don't think they realize
I think it gives you a better perspective,
on life
it gives you a little bit, more a glimpse of real world
it would certainly help the country, too,
Really .
I think that's probably quite a few things the kids, maybe not so much nowadays but used to
go through,
they did things for people,
for their communities, for families, for their friends, where now, I'm not sure they really do.
I think sometimes through groups and organizations,
I thought it, when they asked the question I thought, that sounds wonderful.
I wondered if people were unwilling
I think even if you went in with a negative attitude I don't think it would stay negative very long.
I do know through some organized groups like Scouts and church
do still have opportunities.
that's probably true .
think that's a small, number could,
through those groups, do you think that they participate as much as maybe they used to?
as I remember growing up.
that was something, I think in the fifties and sixties,
seemed more common in the last two decades.
I think that's probably true.
I think it's probably more true, still smaller communities
then in the larger cities.
abouts do you live?
What part of the country?
I live in Richardson right now. Which is just,
We're in Plano
we're not far apart.
One of the calls I'd gotten before was, down to Austin
I know, a friend of mine talked to someone in the midwest
I know there is the possibility that
it could be out of the area.
I hadn't even thought about it being out of the area
you're right.
I grew up in a real small town in Florida.
I mean a real small town .
I think it was just (( )),
of course it was back fifties
I think it was real prevalent back then.
think people thought more of others than they do now.
as far as doing things for them then gaining benefits from it.
this would be a way to get that feeling back. if we've lost some of that
seems in the last decade or two, that's true,
maybe that's a way,
young people had to do it
maybe that would start the trend back because that's one of the things I always thought was a wonderful part of our country.
I do to.
I do to.
is helping others .
. I'm not sure today's kids would go for it though.
I think you would have to start younger.
don't know how young you'd have to go
I think by the time they're, early teenagers anyway, I think it's too late now. At least around here.
it does help, even preschoolers,
they're, things even just starting around the home.
little ones can do a little bit to help the family.
just watching the parents do things too, it can start a pattern.
There's always something, no matter how young,
that helps develop that attitude.
I guess I would really like to see this happen with families more.
I think this is certainly a possible way, to handle it
I wish, (( ))
that's something that I think that has been lost in families
I think that's a good place to start again.
I think it has to start in the families first because if you don't do it your own immediate family, you're sure not going to do it for anybody else.
I do think, the schools,
if you're trying to do something, even with food drives
sometimes what Richardson and Plano both,
when you live in areas like that where there's so much
they don't realize what a small percentage of the world that is.
gosh I'm sure, not even one percent of the world is as fortunate as these areas
That's probably true.
That's probably true.
I know our church youth group, starts with projects young
they have a high school group that works in the Appalachia
area every year.
They've done this for fourteen years now.
that's great.
they've also see that a different way of life and those families are really close.
Some of the things,
that we talked about that were common in the fifties are still there
it really,
every youth that's ever gone really has felt that their life has been changed
it's changed their perspective.
that's just the weeks the summer.
if two weeks, could have that kind of effect I would
I'm glad that there are still some areas get the youth involved in that sort of thing.
Like I said, I think it does,
a small amount of exposure can make a vast difference
in their attitudes .
I guess,
did you have anything else?
I guess that's about all.
I enjoyed talking with you.
good talking with you.
I hope you have a good evening.
You too.
Bye .
ever had to put your children in, child care, Mary Dell?
I'm an old experienced hand.
I started back when it wasn't,
stylish to do that at all.
My daughter that's seventeen now
I worked even when she was a baby.
I had private care for both my daughters until they were two
I was really lucky to have put them in a,
Methodist day school at Preston Hollow Methodist, right off
of Walnut Hill and Preston.
it was a wonderful environment.
just wish all kids, if they have to be put in day school, could have that kind of place .
I see.
it worked well.
How about you?
I have, a nine year old and a six year old
neither one of them has ever been in
in, day care for the reason me working
they both went through preschool.
we've just been real lucky
I think, anyway. To not,
It's not hard to find anything that's part time.
many of the churches have really strong
half day programs.
preschool and children's day out
it was a nightmare back when Cheryl was little
this is one of the few churches that did it.
There were a couple downtown Dallas
cold and impersonal,
I just couldn't hack it.
what I liked about Preston Hollow is that the people that were there when Cheryl was two, which was fifteen years ago, many of them are still there today.
So there
was real continuity.
She went back as a teenager
these people that had changed her diapers when she was three were still there.
my gosh.
was really neat.
it was because they had a director that had always done it as a labor of love
she just kept good people and
my goodness .
real cheerful place, lots of arts and crafts,
I'm really glad my kids had it because Plano schools do so little of that.
That if they hadn't had it before they hit first grade they were never going to have any art or music or any of the interpretive stuff.
that is, a big drawback I think public schools out here.
your lucky to have an art teacher
if you do you get them once a week or something,
pay for it after school.
Our Emily's in the third grade over at Huffman
they started a pilot program where we can pay private tuition so that they can take French and music and art
is that right?
I had no idea.
I willingly did it
I thought,
this makes me angry.
This is something that ought to be in the schools
my goodness.
rather than some of the other stuff they do.
with our budget cuts, I'm sure
that's change anytime soon.
going to be able to do it.
parents who really want their kids to have any humanities are going to have to do that.
my goodness.
in some ways I think day schools do serve those purposes.
That's true.
even the preschools, they get so much of that in preschool
when they hit kindergarten, it's like wham .
Culture shock.
It's just,
Put the colors away .
Get the computers out
Which is too bad.
((That's)) hard.
It's so difficult for them.
did you have your children, did you say private care,
was that in your home or in someone else's home?
Until they were two.
both times they were at our house.
you were able to have somebody come there.
that was hard too.
lucked out with really good people both times
I know so many people that are never able to find that
I'd practically give my paycheck away to do it,
Did you have a nanny
did you have someone
that lived in with you?
she didn't live with us.
the first one was an,
elderly lady who was putting daughter through nursing school
just purely on baby sitting money.
my goodness.
she kept Cheryl during the day and then did more baby sitting at night.
she was neat because she was like the grandmother that my kids never had
because both our parents are dead.
was a plus from
that respect as well.
with Emily it was a neighborhood friend
that kept her.
I have,
I just cannot fathom putting a little bitty baby in a commercial care center.
I was just listening to a program this morning,
I guess it was on the HOME SHOW,
they were talking about, a new, ,
I can't even think of the name of it.
I was halfway listening while I was painting .
it's some kind of advisory board they've put together for parents and children
they've now moved it to Washington, D C
doctor that was on there, the pediatrician said, I can't imagine leaving a three week old and taking them to a nursery day care
and leaving them there.
that would be hard.
they give a lot more leave.
I work at N C N B now,
our benefits for maternal parental care and even for elderly people
really expanding.
We have more options now then we did when my kids were born,
with being able to take off full time longer
you can phase your schedule in so that it's not full time for
boy, that's great.
up to six months.
It's really neat.
had a couple of assistants that came back just three days a week
they've, whatever schedule they want from a pay standpoint.
We try to work it with their hours.
that helps because you don't have to just wean yourself cold turkey and say
okay, I never get to see my baby for eight hours a day again.
the bank has a lot of programs now for child care referrals.
of course it's too late for me so
Yeah .
not tried them to see how effective they are
I think we're finally beginning to make progress but just not very fast .
God, it's amazing .
for our age group it's too late, too little, too late.
do think it's an area that needs to be looked at and improved because more of us are going to have to work.
Two income families I think are here to stay.
I would think, since big business is supposedly why the government makes the decisions they do
people that work in big business have families
they have children.
it's only to their advantage that they get these programs going and
Oh sure.
You retain employees and keep them longer.
was the rationale they gave when they were giving us information about our
Employee Assistance Programs that
they want us to be happy and want us to be able to cope with trying to
split ourselves in fifteen million pieces .
hope it helps.
It seems to help the new mothers
not have to come back full time.
that's hard.
That's good to know.
I have a couple of friends that,
found a private home to take their children to when they're young
until they hit the preschool age.
usually, you'll find woman that's keeping six children or
four to six children in the home
my sister in law's mother does that too, full time.
in Plano though the problem is, you find,
this is what I found with Emily.
wanted her out in Plano area.
I kept finding neighbors and friends
they'd move.
She ended up being in a different home every year.
Too transit.
I finally decided I didn't like that because it was traumatic to her to get so attached to a family and then have them move.
And her surroundings.
this year tried Kinder Care
C and,
then she's old enough to ,
let's see,
we keep our bags lined up in the garage for plastics
we make the dump over to the Wal Mart bins there as soon as they're full.
I guess we collect cartons and whatever are acceptable.
Are you in the part of town where, they have gotten into the other containers yet for recycling?
I didn't think that anybody had those at all yet.
maybe they don't.
know that was supposed to be in May
I couldn't tell whether some parts of town had started it or if it was just everybody waiting for the delivery of whatever those containers were.
I haven't seen any,
thought that it been delayed several times.
I have no idea what they look like
th ,
kind of anxious to see them.
That's going to be interesting because gotten so convenient and conventional in trash disposal which is ,
I look at our big green containers,
I say, they work fine
I keep mine outside the garage so that I don't have any odors
it's clearly a place where,
it will be interesting to see how well that works
glad the community is doing it.
it's one of those things that kind of has to be forced on people.
I don't know what you saw back, years ago,
for me the thing that strikes me is growing up in rural South Dakota where, the farmers brought their eggs to town and the local hatchery
would candle them and package them is that, in the fifties, you could say we had the recycling going on then that we should have now.
Which was all the milk bottles were glass
you got a nickel or dime, which in that time was a lot of money, when you returned them.
Pop bottles
all had a deposit on them.
of course.
That, they did.
we had milk delivered to our house
in glass bottles
we had a milk shoot at the side of the house.
You could just leave the milkman a note
on what you needed
you just put the empty ones back out there
he took them away and another gallon of bottle in there.
I look back my childhood
I'd say, they were doing things then that we should be doing now
it doesn't bother me at all that kind of starting to put the pressure on people to get away from all this, throwaway society that got developed in the sixties and seventies.
to see it take a good turn here.
It seems like it started to take a turn and then it went away
I hope that this time stays.
To see stacks and stacks of newspapers just to the trash is just amazing.
when we go dump our things, we collect newspapers, too, and then take them,
seems like continual flow of people coming and dumping glass and dumping plastics
that's kind of encouraging.
if we started to do that.
I didn't know what to expect.
I'll have to say the only one I'm good at at this point is the newspaper. taking that to the Boy Scouts and my aluminum cans
getting rid of those,
on the plastic, any habits there yet
waiting for the city push me in that direction
I guess they will shortly.
it just seems like on the larger scale that, we always talk about in our society is that economic strife things
I think we just start to put, the nickel deposit on things, like, was the case years ago that, it would have more immediate effect,
I remember searching ditches for beer bottles because they were worth money
it seems like beer drinkers are among the worst for throwing things out the window
outside my little town,
we would, go out and
look for long neck beer bottle because they were worth something.
Do you know, the return to small Coke bottles.
I don't know if there's a deposit on those or not.
that's interesting because,
they're back to glass, you're saying?
let's see,
they'd be, I don't know, maybe ten ounce or
six ounce or ten ounce.
we didn't stop and a long time
they were packed in the old sort of six pack stick them down,
a basket
The carton.
type thing.
The paper carton.
I hadn't seen that in a long time.
I mean the,
you really look and say a lot of the things we need to do, we were doing
we had all the mechanisms in place with the fold up paper cartons, the wood , racks which now, basically, you could turn them into the plastic ones that would hold, twenty four bottles.
I'm not really say going back to good old days,
certainly we were doing things the way we think we should do them now.
it will be interesting to see how, over the next year, this all works out because, on the, grass, know your husband, doesn't really like the paper sacks.
he doesn't like the paper sacks
he likes to pick the grass up, too.
He doesn't,
same way because otherwise,
generally listen to Neal Sperry on Saturdays and a person who says, I like to pick it up
I don't believe in throwing it into landfill,
I have my compost pile,
most of us don't have the, sufficient,
lot size do that.
I'm glad the city's willing to take that on.
That's nice.
I guess they dump it the same place,
I wonder where they dump that.
there's someplace,
if it's,
really, when I look at what my grass does actually about twenty four hours, knowing what the farmers do in rural areas, they just take their hay and just build a big mound of it and it naturally, composts or stores
all you have to do is just place it somewhere and churn it
it will naturally decompose ,
you just have to kind of keep in separated
who knows how they process it from there and what they turn it into,
it's certainly usable material.
keep it separate if they have this date in.
They have this day now, that it's, separate from the other trash pick up.
Right .
don't understand about that is, when,
it's one thing to send grass there,
I've trimmed trees and other things which, end up being something that, clearly won't decompose nearly as rapidly,
What kind of music do you like?
was thinking about it for a long time,
I like basically almost every form of music and type of music.
I don't have a whole lot of dislikes.
I, like jazz, especially the blues,
I like, a lot of classics, everything back from Bach Beethoven and Chopin and, just in general everything.
I enjoy, a lot of modern forms,
Do you like, rock and those kind of things
punk even.
that gets,
some of the punk, when I was in high school, that was, one of the big things, was punk music,
a lot to say, some of it has a lot to say,
I don't think they have a whole lot to say, even .
it's, it really expresses some of the opinions the people who enjoy the music
I guess.
as far as a musical art form, I just don't see a whole lot of art to it .
Do you like rap?
some of it,
it depends.
to listen to, and one is rap that is just funny,
they usually do a lot of satire
that kind I kind of like.
Some of it is kind of
the monotonous
the monotonous,
that's not,
I don't enjoy that at all
when they're just talking about, I'm better than you, and blah, blah, blah.
I don't like
I like the funny, satire,
into some serious discussions of problems in our, in
urban society.
It really does.
It talks about, race relations and police relations
I guess I don't really care to listen to rap that much except for once in a while some of the funny
more satire kind some times.
I'm, with you though,
I like classical
I don't like to listen to it all the time, but, some of the time, anyway.
I like easy listening, just kind of,
I guess I don't care much for rock and roll any more.
I used to like it all right,
I don't really care to listen to it any more for some reason.
let's see.
Country western, I'm not quite as big on that.
Some of it's okay,
about my opinion of that .
yeah .
Some of it kind of falls in the rap category I guess,
The thing about country western that I don't enjoy doesn't seem to be any imagination behind it
one country and western song sounds like every other,
a lot of them,
country and western
sound, really similar,
musicians don't get to really get into their music.
They just play a certain number of chords
the drummer plays a certain beat,
you have a country and western song
that's kind of the way I feel about rock and roll sometimes, too, I guess.
They don't really,
has kind of the same sound over and over,
the other thing I don't like about it is they have a tendency to play the instrumental so loud that you can't understand what the lyrics are
you can't understand what they're saying on some of those songs
which probably is just as well on some of them, too.
I can't say that I like a lot of
modern, rock and roll,
I really enjoy the fifties, the sixties and of the seventies
rock and roll
earlier things.
I really enjoy, especially the sixties ...
my name is Leslie.
I'm Jennifer.
where are you from?
I'm from Dallas, Texas.
that's neat.
did you understand what we,
television shows?
Yeah .
that sounds good.
Okay .
don't watch too many,
we can try it.
Are you ready to start?
Sure am.
just a minute .
I guess we're recording now.
What are your favorite television shows?
I don't really watch too many T V shows other than, occasionally turn on DONAHUE because it comes on in the morning when I seem to be getting ready around here.
there's no one else around, it's just me and I have a chance to listen to something, I'll turn that on, but, just conversation factor, I think,
I think I enjoy when I catch it, I don't even know what night it's on, but DESIGNING WOMEN sometimes,
I love that show.
do you? .
that is great.
it's fun.
there's a new one that started out that I've caught called GOOD AND EVIL, I think.
I heard they just canceled that.
I read in today's paper they just canceled that show.
It is a real different one.
it's different.
I guess I watch it more out of the uniqueness of it and the time that it comes on more than the fact that I have to see it.
Have you seen the show, new this year, called HOME FRONT?
I haven't watched that.
really good.
on Tuesday nights from ten to eleven
it's set in post World War Two times
it's about how the servicemen come home and readjust to civilian life here and the changes everyone's going through.
It's really interesting.
It's kind of like opera type thing.
Sounds neat.
it's really well written.
Is that on,
I don't even know, to tell you the truth .
What other shows do you like?
I prefer OPRAH WINFREY
to DONAHUE .
she comes on later
I usually have kids around so I don't up
watching that one is the only problem I have with it, I guess.
I did watch soap operas,
I work full time now and can't catch those anymore.
Yeah .
Except when I'm home sick,
now when I watch them, I think, why did I ever watch those?
That's right .
They're stupid .
when I did watch them I was addicted to them every day.
not anymore.
That can happen.
do you know of any other shows in the even, or something that you enjoy?
tonight I'm looking forward to seeing GOLDEN GIRLS.
that's always fun.
I like that show.
if I can stay up late enough, I like to catch SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE every now and then.
right now we're watching a Penn State football game because that's where we live.
It's exciting,
we're winning,
that's really exciting.
I think,
I also, course, like to catch the news during the evening hours
it's a little tough because that's when I'm usually making dinner and the kids are wanting to talk all at the same time.
usually I don't get a whole lot of news watching in.
we watch C N N in morning while we're getting ready
for the day and eating breakfast.
We'll catch our news that way.
Watch the weather channel so that we know what the weather's going to be like.
what have you seen interesting on OPRAH WINFREY lately?
Lately, I haven't been catching it because of my work schedule.
I can't remember the last time I saw it.
It's been a while.
I don't know if we've talked our full three minutes or not .
I don't know,
sometimes they come on say.
that's right.
today on C N N they were talking about something like this about, learning to recognize voices and words and stuff and the research that's going on which is kind of what we're doing, helping them get a data base for words.
It was really interesting.
It is interesting.
Do you work for Texas Instruments?
just, doing this as a fund raiser for our church.
that's nice.
it kind of makes it easy, to do a little something for it.
talked to a lot of people from Texas, it seems,
we thought, maybe they work Dallas,
All right.
I think that gets us off to discussing the topic for tonight.
Which is movies,
That is correct.
Are you a movie buff?
I don't like going to see them in the theaters
outside of that, rent a lot,
watch them on T V mostly.
I have a V C R
I see most all of mine there.
What have you seen recently that you enjoyed?
I don't know,
earlier tonight we were watching TO LIVE AND DIE IN L A
Have you seen that movie?
I haven't.
It's a kind of one of those psycho ones.
live alone.
Consequently, I don't like these things.
it's not too bad.
One of those cop thrillers
Have you seen the mov ,
do you have a V C R?
we do.
Have you seen the movie CLASS ACTION with Gene Hackman?
I haven't yet.
I saw it this weekend
it is, to me an outstanding movie.
I thoroughly enjoyed it.
He is, an attorney and his daughter is an attorney
she has a suit against his company.
it's one of those things.
there's a lot of l ,
something that anyone can watch and enjoy.
He's a good actor though.
Beg your pardon?
Gene Hackman's a good actor.
he is.
I think.
Do you see HOOSIERS?
I've seen HOOSIERS.
Saw it just again the other night, for,
saw her just the other night too.
did you?
It's one of our favorite movies.
live with, a roommate and my girlfriend the three of us.
We've seen that movie probably six times in the last six months.
Have you seen the movie, CROSSING DELANCY?
that's one I have watched, six or eight times.
I always feel so good when I get through with that movie.
I like those movies that you watch time and time again.
I do too.
DIRTY DANCING and CROSSING DELANCY are two of my favorite.
what business are you in?
an electrical engineer.
In New Hampshire.
All right.
I work in Massachusetts actually.
all right.
is everything going all right up there?
it's only about, half an hour.
I live the border.
that's that bad then.
Half an hour, we do that just going to downtown Dallas.
That's right.
we live up in tax free New Hampshire and drive down to Massachusetts to work.
That makes a lot of sense .
are you a native of that part of the country?
I grew up in New Hampshire.
It seems, southern town,
it's called ((Portsmouth)).
It's, I don't know, fifteen minutes from the Mass , border and five minutes from the main border. *
We live right in the corner.
That one little spot in New Hampshire, we have ten miles of coastline,
I live on little ten mile spot.
sounds wonderful.
Did you have damage this year with hurricanes?
Not up, where I live
further down the coast in Massachusetts they got hit pretty bad.
I happened to be in Nassau
we got the backlash of that thing.
they had record high waves, thirty year high waves come in there,
it was quite an experience
what movies are you looking forward to seeing now?
only twenty seven years old
THE DOORS movie, that's out on video. I want to watch that.
Have you seen GREEN CARD?
That would be pretty good.
I haven't seen that one.
That's a real warm movie.
really just turned out nicely.
I would recommend that if you have a chance.
I'm in for it.
We rent a lot of movies
often sit around and say, what movies should we rent?
we don't know.
can get GREEN CARD, go for it.
All right,
we'll try that one.
I have been working an accountant at the medical school here in Dallas
I have watched, GROSS ANATOMY.
Have you seen that one?
I did.
I don't know
I can associate with some of the people in that movie because of the young students I see over at the medical school.
I hope you have a very Merry Christmas.
You too.
I'm looking forward to it.
I think we're going to have a white Christmas up here just like the song says.
to begin,
I guess, space is, real important, I think,
it's real vital to the future of not only our kids but every generation until the end of time, I guess.
it's definitely new frontier stuff.
I'm not too up to date frontier,
I guess they're pretty far into it now.
Star Wars is not too far I don't think.
I worked on some of it at T I
have you.
once upon a time.
what do you know about it.
actually I'm quite versed lately.
I get on a computer network all the time,
people are talking the current space program all the time.
They're talking about new rockets that they're designing now that, are just like science fiction,
it's like they,
take off,
they land,
the afterburners are going, not like space shuttle landing, gliding down, but
straight down to the landing pad.
my gosh.
it's called V C X or something like that.
Also called Delta Clipper, which is a decent name for
something like that.
I don't know.
go up in space if you had a chance?
Do you,
I think I would.
I think that'd be neat.
I think I would just sitting here talking about it,
if the time came, it'd be real nervous.
I'd be scared,
scared me worse than Six Flags roller coaster.
That'd be pretty hairy.
I had come off of a car,
know what it's like to ,
Depending on what was left of my technology to get me home .
I guess they're talking about people going to the moon and stuff, now, wherever.
they're talking about doing that again, too.
And opening up those stations, whatever, filling them.
I don't know if we'll ever see that up there.
at least we're going to have a space station supposedly in the next few years.
they're going to put,
That's all beyond my imagination really.
science fiction books,
you look at the Jetsons, cartoon show, and it's not too far fetched they all had in those cartoons,
you never know.
Any of that stuff from the Jetsons, from that cartoon, that you would never imagine would possible, and now have a lot of those,
you never know may occur,
as far as me seeing it,
I don't know .
I don't know,
I think it's real vital important for the future,
generations to come,
it's something definitely that,
got the extra little oomph of interest.
I'm sure it'll draw a lot more interest too, once more possible,
when they start showing the drawings and all that, I'm sure, when they,
I wish,
Boeing or
McDonald Douglas or something like that was supposed to buy, a space shuttle sooner or later and just make it, purely commercial
they'd go up, and do things
did they scratch Star Wars deal, they one we was all worried about
Russia and all that?
it's still probably going,
I don't know whether, research will go on.
the economy the way it is all over, they probably cut back on
on that, because it's not,
going to be cutting back so much on just, the number of troops we've got in Europe and the number
of troops we have here.
I know,
Russia's still going to have missiles,
they're still going to be subs and things.
we don't know who's handling them now
that's a whole different story now.
Latest I heard it was just going to be was going to have them.
At least what everybody says.
we want only Russia to have them.
now they're saying, Yeah,
you're a republic,
you don't want those,
you don't want those. (( )).
Some crazy hit man over there
with those little or whatever
they splitting it all up now,
one of them crazy
crazy guys get a hold of it,
you never know.
guy that's taken over for Gorbachev, on our side, isn't he.
Pretty much.
One hopes.
I think we went through him though to get to Gorbachev on a lot of subjects
that way, you can't never tell that.
Kiss some butt,
Michael, what do you think about, funding for AIDS research?
Do you,
that's something I've thought a lot about.
work in a hospital.
I've worked in the hospital for fifteen years
I've taken care of a few AIDS patients.
when they asked us we want to, keep it the same or, spend more, spend less, I think
I think right now what they're spending is adequate.
personal opinion.
I think it's something that's going to take them a while to come up with a, vaccine for.
I don't think it's going to be that easy to come up with
I think they already would have by now,
I don't know spending a lot more money would really make any difference right now.
I think they're doing much research as they can possibly do,
what about you?
I guess I'm not too aware of how much they're spending right now .
I'm not either.
You know.
I'm definitely not aware of how much.
that's something I've never really kept up with at all.
I don't,
go ahead.
I'm not sure,
I know, I've always thought more about the disease rather than the
you know what I mean?
that sort of thing.
we were talking about the money, I'd just have to say what they're spending is probably enough, simply because I don't know that much about it.
can see that research is needed
I think so,
I think so.
it's becoming a major problem.
I guess the area that I think more about is I would like to see them focus on, preventing it,
in more,
that's true.
That's true
because, it's easily preventable disease.
I feel like just saying, safe sex is not the answer.
It's definitely not.
abstinence in certain cases
That's true,
that's true.
Myself, I'm get a divorce
course, I'm not all ready to just run out there and start dating everybody I can or anything.
it's sort of scary to find yourself single again,
because you never know what's going to happen .
You don't know who you're going to come across,
Course, I'm not going to want to go and have sex with everybody I see.
it's something you got to think about these days.
A single person.
it certainly changed my attitude about that
in a hurry.
I think for a lot of people it has.
I know that, in some of these larger cities they're passing out free syringes and all of that sort of thing
so that, the drug addicts
Drug addicts.
won't be
getting dirty needles and everything.
I don't know,
I don't think that's a bad idea.
I know it, sort of doesn't address the problem of drug addiction .
It just sort of keeps that going.
I don't know,
at least drug addiction can be treated whereas AIDS, so far, cannot be.
I don't know,
I'm not too much against passing out of the free syringes myself.
I don't know,
what do you think about that?
that's a hard issue .
It really is.
It really is.
It really is.
They gave us a hard topic .
Yeah .
definitely think that it's the drug problem that needs to be addressed,
as you say, people, in the meantime,
someone who's not ready to give up drugs,
That's true.
That's true.
If they're the AIDS problem, passing that on to each other, then
I guess if you consider the two problems, drug addiction and AIDS
AIDS would have to come first, I guess, as far as
something do about it.
I don't know.
course, there's so many things in the world where, if you solve one problem, you may be creating another ,
I guess you just have to take the two problems and see which is worse.
Which is the most important to solve at the time
I don't know.
I've never looked into how much money they're spending.
no idea.
I know a lot of our tax money goes to that.
I really have never looked into it.
I have no idea.
I haven't either.
I've heard,
different voices
speaking up and saying we're not spending enough
Mostly that's what I've heard,
I don't know,
yet, I know sounds like big money to me .
I think it is.
probably takes
I think it is.
a lot.
it does every,
It seems to take more than, for any little thing they do,
it seems to take a lot more money that you would think it would.
Did you have any fear working in the hospital with that,
That's one thing I've never really feared.
a lot of family, they fear me working like that and, under of those conditions,
I don't fear it at all.
I work the operating room a lot
of course, when w ,
How you doing?
I'm Lee with,
I'm over here in Plano, Texas.
Let me ask you something, can I run a minute and shut my radio off?
Where are you calling from
where are you at?
Arlington, Texas.
there's a lot of going on in Arlington these days.
not all good stuff.
Are you involved in any of that?
I'm personally.
what benefits do,
do you work?
I'm going to school right now.
you are?
I can tell you about my last job or
whatever you want to talk about that or my husband's or what I think.
I've got a lot of,
work for myself
there's a lot guess I do miss, a lot of benefits from working for a big corporation.
I miss,
insurance and
the steady paychecks that come.
I've been in my own business, Mary Kay, in fact,
I'm selling in out now to go to school full time
is that right?
I enjoyed the freedom of having that,
go to work when I wanted to or not
the benefits weren't there.
own part of a roofing company.
do you?
Dallas, Fort Worth area.
unfortunately were part company
we had all the benefits there
I do miss that.
on the other hand, I enjoy having time
that I have with my family and
being able to, work when I want
I think today the thing that I, would appreciate the most,
my husband gets,
his medical through his company,
we have
to pay for mine
that's being insured
is that right?
we pay the same amount that someone over there that has four children has,
it's kind of,
I would,
I really,
the way medical expenses are
I think that's probably one of the biggest
I'll tell you what,
that is the single most
benefit enjoyed, and I do miss
I looked into picking up some, medical insurance family,
and it is unbelievable
It's out of sight.
how much you have to pay for it.
it's out of sight.
Even at a group rate, I couldn't believe how much
is our,
even at a group rate.
the amount that you have to pay kids
if you want to add dental to it, that's
it goes up.
that eats even more.
I guess the other benefits that I miss, I guess is, some of the bonuses and stuff that
that goes on with just being involved with a big company,
course, these days, you can't count on that because
I feel bad for the people that are involved in that, G M deal there in
in Arlington
I'm sure it will be, quite a few people are affected by that
it's going to hurt the city,
I will personally tell you, I used to work at a bank,
I would see the G M people come in when shut down to retool.
They were paid that whole time
I don't know, if you're aware of this r ,
they come in there,
they go off fishing and stuff and come in every Friday, and go to the safety deposit box,
I'm sitting there making a hundred dollars a week,
Is that right?
they had all these gr ,
really believe they have done this to themselves, in a way, because of the unions being so stocked.
The union,
right now, anybody's that's laid off from G M will have a full year's paycheck.
I just read this in the paper the other day.
Is that right?
Plus probably an additional six months through worker's stuff that they have through the company
it's happening
because it's going to hurt,
I don't feel as sorry for them,
If my husband
really the,
were laid off tomorrow, we'd get one more check
that would be it.
really the ones it's going to hurt actually businesses around
in that area.
that's already
that's the ones that
that that's going to hurt because they depend on that,
I think there's a case,
where benefits have gotten,
they voted them in
they got so good, like two dollars for a prescription
no deductible on the medical, all these things,
it made the prices of cars go up
I believe in unions,
they went too far.
I'll tell you, I
I can't make eighteen dollars an hour.
I've had my fill of unions .
know someone out here that makes eighteen dollars an hour.
do you want to go ahead
. I, went to school at Madison for two years
they are really big on women's rights.
equal treatment.
seen a lot of rallies and things like that.
I'm not that liberated.
I mean my mom is kind of old fashioned,
pick up some traits from her and stuff.
interesting and better for women to see that there's of them doing men's fields.
I like to see that.
I don't like to see women, waiting on men hand and foot
believe in sharing and doing things for each other.
I do too.
I like the idea.
I see a lot more,
my children, I have five children
they're all married.
I love seeing the men help the women so much.
they both cooperate together on,
I think it's great.
me too .
I hope that happens to me someday.
don't mind
(( )) .
doing stuff.
I have a boyfriend
I got to make him dinner and stuff
help me do the dishes.
I don't want to,
expect to help to clean up then after (( )) .
That's right.
That's right.
I've always taught my men that.
They better clean up with their women and help them.
If they did that,
good about it.
it is neat to see them all work together.
a big thing that I see. women getting married now,
at work or go back to work. Or whatever.
they're well educated.
I believe we'll see a lot more C E O s in companies.
They're having a fit about how little there are.
I think we'll see a lot more. Don't you? Of upper management?
Then we do now, even.
I think it'll escalate.
I think black women now
I work at a high school.
boss is a black woman and has only been there a couple of months and already promoted
she's very sharp.
I think that th ,
and the ethnic thing a good thing now.
me too.
They're moving them up
they're sharp
you're going to see more of that in leadership I believe.
I like to see that.
I think it's, really neat to see and all that educated minority, person
who really knows what they're talking about.
it's just too bad that some people, still look down on them just because of their color.
That's ((a shame)).
Especially black women.
they ((wouldn't)) know what they're doing.
I'm not big on subserving as far as
to the men at all.
I never have gone along with that, Even far back.
I was brought up pretty good in a home that,
years ago my mother was that way.
The same.
my bo ,
ther ,
some people say the boys shouldn't have to do those jobs. The inside jobs.
we never were taught,
they had to do as much as we did.
that was good.
same here.
good. To keep the equal as far not, necessarily by sex type thing.
Same here.
You should be able to accomplish as much.
I think the, attitude is a lot better towards the parents raising the younger ones now.
You see a lot more of the mothers and all saying to the young girls,
you can do it.
If he
can do it, you can do it type thing.
see more men, participating in the family things with children.
helping to take care of them more. And
and, doing the jobs equally,
What about politics on it?
Do you think the political scene?
I'm not that big on politics.
I'm not
that educated on it.
this year because I don't see many women into the political scene
I really think we should have more
I agree with that.
political leaders in the women than we do President and Vice President this year,
there's nobody again.
I think they're all scared out
what was the lady's name that ran a couple of,
Fitz ,
I forget her name now.
I don't know .
you know who I mean?
I know who you're talking about.
She took such a rough go of it.
deal and,
At least she was strong to try it and
that's good.
I wish they would get some more on that.
I really was disappointed this year when I see any of the candidates talking that they're talking about.
didn't see any of the women in there.
that disappoints me.
right now I don't think we have too many. forefront.
Schroeder's about the biggest one in Washington.
Congress woman.
other th ,
we really,
I think the first thing they said,
I have written this down
it would,
to have honesty in government or an honest government?
You're asking what my opinion about,
whether it's possible to have honesty in government.
I suspect that it is possible.
I think it probably is more likely if you have a small government unit where everybody knows everybody.
That's a good point.
other than that I think maybe it just depends on how you define honesty.
I had read something one time
it was just applying to governments in general,
it was written many years ago.
It said that it's impossible to have a completely honest system of government because people who choose government for their positions are power seekers.
I thought that was interesting.
It wasn't just talking about our government.
It was just government in general. From times past,
they're saying that government officials would tend to be power seekers.
that would be a next question to ask.
How many do you think are in there for *
they want to be a service to us
are they in there for their own gains,
personally I feel some of each.
I think maybe a lot of them,
say the more honest ones who are still looking out for themselves, it may be more matter of not what can I steal while in an office but how many friends can I make while,
I'm in office.
how good a name can I make for myself and so forth.
I guess it would be like anything else.
The president of General Motors probably has the same,
they talked,
the other, let's see.
Third question was how (( )) serving for their own gains do you think goes on,
then they,
that's hard to answ ,
in business.
very normal,
that we should not ex , (( I think, ))
I think we put too much on politicians.
We expect them to only be there to serve us,
I think a little more honesty in the campaigns would be,
more to the point.
If you knew what you were getting when you voted,
That's a problem, isn't it?
It's interesting
I'm taking a Texas government class right now,
one of the things (( ))
it's so easy to blame them to (( ))
a lot of times I think it's our own fault.
They lie to us because we don't want to hear the truth.
they say you,
get the government you deserve.
If they tell us the truth, we don't (( elect )) them
huh .
Especially with all this stuff coming up here lately about people's past,
I don't know why anybody would want to get under that scrutiny anymore.
It's hard to imagine.
Because it's,
I think it's gotten just care ,
we're not talking about issues we're talking about somebody's personal life
we're getting away from what we ought to be looking at .
it almost seems like in order to avoid, some of the scandal, you would have to have the kind of wife that you would only find, the (( Bobsy )) twins or,
something like that .
I also think it would be funny if we could know everything about the people that were in there and throw them out.
I don't think there would be too many (( left )) .
you're taking a government course?
At what?
The university?
at, it's T C J C.
I like it.
they also, all corruption,
I don't think we can make laws to eliminate anything anyplace totally.
You can make laws against corruption .
that doesn't eliminate it, does it?
doesn't mean,
I don't think making laws will stop it.
I don't know how many laws you would have to have.
they've got laws against that didn't stop that guy in, *
sure didn't,
Milwaukee, did it?
did it?
I think you can legislate
I think there's no way that you eliminate it all by legislating,
we would end up with so many more laws that,
I just think that's human nature that you're going to have corruption in government, in business, personal life,
Actually, I think other countries may have it worse,
the Japanese government is always having kind of a scandal.
Usually involving the Prime Minister or people very close to him.
I still believe I get very fed up with government sometimes
when I think about where I'd want to go, this is still the best
I can,
I've been around to a few other countries
I have not found one yet that I would rather live in.
I think,
it's worst I think we've got the best.
Okay, Chuck, do you have any pets there at your home?
Yeah, I do.
what kind do you have?
I've got a male Siamese about a year old here.
I live alone in an apartment,
except for the cat.
huh .
How about you?
we have a cat,
he's probably, a good two years old, big, old, fat and sassy tabby.
how's the disposition of your Siamese cat?
it's, they're just, aggressive by nature
he's been neutered and declawed,
he's an indoor cat,
that kind of calms him down for the most part.
How about yours?
been really aggressive, especially towards my little girl, for
some reason.
He's, been so mean to her .
you say you've had him how long?
We've had him for about two years
Two years.
he was so mean to her, right after we first got him.
we had him neutered, declawed,
now he bites her.
He can't
scratch her any more,
he bites her.
Does he bite her enough to draw blood?
he has a couple of times,
he's a very possessive cat.
loves my son,
it's his cat,
he's the only one that allows him to touch him pet him love him
he's so funny,
he just follows my son around just like a dog.
He won't even let my son shower.
He meows and wants to get in the bathroom
while he showers, it's so hilarious.
he's quite a animal .
I guess.
as long as he doesn't get too aggressive. I guess with the daughter he's all right.
You wouldn't want him to carry her off or something.
did, actually take him to the pound a couple of times,
because we just couldn't have him being
so aggressive towards the girl,
he seems to have mellowed out a little bit,
we do keep our daughter away from him.
Were it not for my son, the cat would not be in this house .
Is that the only pet that you have?
It is,
tried a dog about four years ago, we ended up with, malamute and some other kind of mix.
Anyway up being just a dog that ate us out of house and home.
we gave him up and tried.
do you live, in a house, or a place where you,
we're in a house,
we're in a subdivision
I see.
where we really can't allow the dog,
we couldn't allow him to run free,
he was just chained up all the time,
have you tried any other pets?
live alone in an apartment,
not that big that,
although I've heard rabbits are pretty good
I saw something on C N N or on cable here
a while ago that showed some people that had rabbits in apartments
my word.
and in houses,
they apparently,
especially when they're young when they bring them in
my word.
do just paper train it or something?
I guess.
I guess,
I would imagine that they don't have many more than one to start with, either.
rabbits are darling.
That would be fun if you could get them trained.
Otherwise they're pretty smelly .
that's right.
Did you see C N N, dog show,
I see.
they have, Dog Show,
I think it's in New York City Gardens
there once a year live
they had that on last week,
that's really kind of something
to watch,
it's on, I think, two or three nights for maybe an hour or two
Is that right?
some of the weirdest animals you ever want to see in there.
Some of them are really beautiful, too.
I'd be, interesting to watch.
you live in Utah do you?
We live out here Ogden.
It's north of Salt Lake City, Utah
we really love it out here.
It's, kind of country.
only about ten minutes from Ogden.
we're kind of country but not too.
do you all work for T I, or for,
Do you?
see, I'm getting so many calls to Texas.
This is the very first one talked to.
I've been doing it for about two weeks
no my,
No my,
how do you get most of your current event information?
(( )) , see I'm going to school right now,
while I'm working, chance to read the paper a lot,
I don't watch T V as much really either, because, my free time is kind of,
I do other stuff with it.
While I'm at work sometimes, on the computer network
I read the news sometimes,
that's kind of helpful.
I would imagine going to college, though, your professors and different things,
you keep up on what's going on.
That's true,
my roommates and stuff,
people around me talk about it.
the people I work with are pretty, on that kind of stuff,
I'm a housewife,
I have three kids,
I get most of my information probably through just the news at six o'clock
and then, talking with people and just hearing what's going on. (( )) .
do you watch
Just the regular channel
the MACNEIL LEHRER HOUR?
just channel eight.
That's our channel here
that's the, eyewitness news.
where I am channel eight's, public T V,
it's kind of different.
I think a lot of the commentators on, the major networks, right, it's kind of appropriate right now because of the election stuff going on,
it seems that, they kind of get to throw their opinions into how they, report on the news.
I think even in the elections, they choose who they're going to follow and who they're not,
if a candidate can get them to follow, then the news will, kind of publicize his name.
I don't think that the way I get the news is the right way to get it.
I think you get a very lopsided picture of what's going on.
because only report on,
they give each candidate perhaps, ten second blurbs in which say, just can't get a full picture of,
their message unless you have time to sit down something on it.
the news, too, it just doesn't, cover that many stories,
it just covers your basic, violent crimes
and your with weather and stuff,
other than that, you really don't know what's going on.
I will read our current letters that come out on elections
I guess I do read that,
I do study who's running in our area,
I do study what's going on in the economy.
I guess I do read other magazines, too, to get my information.
What kind of, see,
I subscribe to SCIENCE NEWS,
real good because it gives a brief summary of, the updates, of what's going on in science without getting into a lot of detail that would, bog me down that I wouldn't know about
other than that I don't really read,
really subscribe to anything else.
I used to read every month a READER'S DIGEST
now I guess I just have friends that clip articles
if I, am interested in something, I read up on that just a little in the newspaper
to find out what was going on.
a lot of the times, wish I had the time to read all the stories in the newspaper,
I just can't seem to find the time.
If they put it out in a video, or on ,
not a video but a cassette tape or something, where you could just listen to it
I would do that while I was doing other things.
I remember back war, everyone here at work always had the radio or the T V on, because were going constantly with that stuff.
even did a story on our news here in Texas on what people wanted to see more of,
people said that they wanted to see more on outside of Texas news.
we just don't want to hear every night all the killings that went on here in Dallas
that we want to hear what's going on with the economy, what's being done to help it, what's going on in other countries, what's, just more information.
violent crime in Atlanta the whole news hour .
I guess we'll get pretty good news coverage in a couple of years when you host the, summer olympics .
in the newspaper they have a section, I think, every now and then, on the Olympics,
they've got a countdown,
it's like sixteen hundred days or something.
I know, we're trying to get tickets to it right now.
That's going to be crazy that time of year here.
I can't believe,
stretching out the Olympic news for that much coverage over,
I guess people want to hear about it.
Also big in the news right now is the Braves, because in, or whatever
they did so well last year.
on sports,
I think fine, I would like to see more time spent on other things.
It seems like,
I don't know,
they way they do the newscasts, I wish kind of separated it,
if you wanted to watch one thing you could turn to some channel for it
I don't have cable.
kay, Dave.
What kind of pets do you have?
we have one rotten cat.
One rotten cat .
it's my son's cat.
I heard a laugh in the background.
that's the boys.
They know I don't like it.
Don't you like cats?
I like cats.
cat is a, more like a dog.
he's, a one owner.
He likes one boy in the family and that's about it .
That's odd.
How does he treat the other people?
Just, stays away or runs
my oldest son around.
when he is in the house, he will come up and he'll jump on his lap,
if anybody reaches over to pet him or whatever, he'll just kind of look at them like what are doing.
Did he raise him or something?
we bought the cat for him
he's, been the one that you know spent the most time with him.
never owned a cat like that.
I've had cats growing up all the time
they are
usually either that way with everybody or friendly to everybody .
that's interesting.
it's a weird cat .
We have mutt.
A mutt.
named it Hooper because that's where we got it from.
some lady, she,
a lot of people, drop off pets at her house
she use to work for a
she would them
give them all their shots
we saw an ad saying it was free,
we went down there and picked it up
it's been an excellent dog,
it's my first dog I've had
we got it because my wife stays here at home alone
while I go to work
that's mostly why we got it. To keep her company while I am away at work.
is that kind of your child right now?
Right now is.
You feel like. .
It's kind of good training.
we have been trying for kids,
right now we haven't had any,
it's pretty good training, I think really, keeps her on her toes .
you had dogs before?
my brother has.
we didn't do a lot with them.
I never felt like it was mine or anything,
you couldn't do anything.
that more responsibility. When it's yours and not your brothers .
when I was growing up a dog
we had mostly mutts,
not mutts, but mixes
like one or two mix
those dogs always seem to be the best dogs.
That's what we found.
Ours is, a cockapoo.
I think it's half cocker spaniel and half poodle.
it's a really good dog.
I don't know,
they seem better or something.
Is your cat a purebred?
it's just an accident .
From my son's friend down the street.
they're cat was an outside cat and just end up with some kittens
Would you ever want a dog in the family?
had a dog that was a, mix between an Alaska Malamute and a Labrador
I should say a pup
he was just too big for our kids
when we got him
moved into our house that was the first thing we wanted to get a pet
it was a dog that we gotten
just too big.
the kids couldn't handle him
I was still going to school
my wife was working
I was working
we just didn't have time to really train him
too big for the kids to handle,
he was just tied up to a post
we gave him to,
I don't know if you've,
there is a place out here, called Shorties Lane out here in Harrisville
they have,
I guess it's kind of an animal shelter
he just takes a few the animals in
some he destroys
some he keeps.
we took him up there
he ended up keeping him.
cause he has had him for six or seven years.
saw him just about a year ago
I thought boy that sure looks like that pup we gave away
we asked him about it one day
he said yeah,
he's been the best dog I've ever had in my life
just goes everywhere with him.
would have been a great, great dog.
He just needed a lot of time.
Hey Steve.
started a recycling program here, I think.
this is my first experience with recycling program
instead of just tossing everything away which I always felt bad about, I am starting to up.
The only disadvantage is that they don't pick it up at the curb.
They make me drive it a mile down the road and spit it out down there.
What are they doing up there?
here in Saskatoon, much the same thing.
There is no curb pick up of, any of the recycled products.
we're in a community of about one hundred and eighty thousand people.
there are areas where we could,
actually we have a couple of the, handicapped societies, types of places where the one they do as just a recycling operation and then others they collect the paper and ship it to other retailers
we are able to, have drop off bins for news papers and cardboard and that kind of thing
a deposit program on plastic and glass containers. primarily soft drink bottles
we are able to take it to one of the rehabilitation centers
they recycle the containers.
They refund the deposit which is anywhere from five to fifteen cents a container
deposits only on drink stuff.
primarily on soft drink, pops and that kind of thing
they induce recycling of plastic and glass, soft drink containers.
we do have one of the scrape metal dealers that will accept tin and aluminum cans as well
with the handicapped group will also accept those.
it's extensive,
then again the initiative of the individual person because there is no coordinated pick up by the city.
did they,
these products to the handicapped group
the handicapped group is getting the the money
are distributing the funds back to you.
the opportunity for both.
Generally handicapped group takes care of the things that
actually, the government has placed the deposit which is the inducement to the bottle so that you get your money back
the recycler run by the handicapped society pays back the cost of that deposit
in turn will get some money from the bottlers and from the the people that do the canning of the pop and the beer well .
That's very cool.
similar program in New York City where, a thing called Homeless Incorporated or something like that,
what they do is employ, people to go out and collect all the recyclable cans
I think it's mostly cans.
There may be bottles as well, but beer cans, soda cans and what not
they, bring them up to one centralized location and, are able to collect the money from the various beer soda manufacturers get more money to these people that desperately need it.
I guess partly because of our climate.
Here in Saskatoon at least, the majority of central,
I want to say Central Canada,
Central Canada tends to referred more to Ontario and Quebec
we don't have much of a situation where we might call them homeless people.
We certainly have a fair number of people that are on and unemployment insurance and that kind of thing.
there's psychological pressure against employing people to do that kind of thing although, scouts and hockey teams and ball teams, those kinds, regularly do bottle drives where they go around in various neighborhoods and collect the bottles at individual homes.
Do they do it with news papers as well?
They have done it some,
we have actually quite an extensive network of collecting news papers.
They are actually at, virtually all of the shopping centers. the shopping malls.
There are several containers where the group called Cosmopolitan Industries collects
people can drop their used news papers and other papers in the bins
the bins are collected.
some of the,
(( Jimmy )) , how do you get most of your news?
watch the, national news every day, for one.
I also read one or two papers a day
news junkie
I tune in to C N N a lot.
when you say the morning news, or evening news or national news is when?
every evening at six thirty, I believe,
I watch the national news.
I would probably be a junkie or C N N a lot,
subscribe to cable
of the poor service and also, because,
give to the United Way
I figured that amount of money I just donate to that.
as opposed to paying for cable.
I take away a, addiction .
the quality of the news you get of most, sources I would say is pretty low.
usually you get pretty incomplete coverage
that's one of the reasons try and get as many sources as possible,
if you hear the same story from three different sources, then you get a much clearer picture what is going on. You would hope,
still, hard to say
that what you've heard is what really is.
newspapers do you read?
I read, the local newspaper
I also try and read one of the, major dailies like the CHICAGO TRIBUNE, or the NEW YORK TIMES or something like that.
For a while there I, subscribed to NEW YORK TIMES, a couple of newspapers because, my fiance,
she was unemployed for a while
she, really needed to look at ads
so often the newspapers are trying to compete with a lot of other sources of
I don't know,
NEW YORK TIMES is okay,
when you read a lot of this stuff, quality of the writing has definitely gone down in the last ten years or so,
say it's like the sixth grade reading level,
I swear it's at least second or third grade,
Pretty low.
I don't know,
I think if you listen to N P R or something like,
really like N P R a lot.
That's pretty good.
I like listening to that
when I get a chance, when I'm in the car a long enough time listen to it, because I,
I N P R a lot also.
I really like them because they give,
instead of being, as your newspaper or your T V news where you get a five minute blurb or a ten paragraph blurb, they go really in depth on topics which I think is good.
they also,
their editorial stand point seems to be a lot better than, say, your major network news and that kind of thing.
McNeil , and Lehrer,
I guess he's leaving,
one of them is leaving.
pretty good, too.
I guess a year ago you're probably watching C N N a lot, right?
Had that invasion or whatever it is.
Sure was.
don't know,
I guess hype.
Look at Smith trial.
that was a joke.
that was,
then you also have things broadcast the Clarence Thomas hearings basically the whole length of them which I thought was good.
the N P R doing that,
I know,
I had, some visitor
he was I don't know, fixated on that, just listened to it
I guess that's good when it's live, really want that,
that's not really providing you news.
more like a media event rather than
the news that you would get from any other source is being generated from that event, which is something that's good also about C Span which tune into every once in a while.
That's kind of boring to me, I think.
is, really kind of boring,
you don't watch it there, then you're going to hear somebody else's canned, report, somebody else's view about it
that's what to,
if you watch the news, to be formed on what somebody else thought about it
as opposed to actually watching it yourself and forming your own which I be much more in favor of forming my own opinion as opposed to following someone else's.
I guess that's true.
one of the ways that I get information is, every day when I log in on the computer I subscribe to thing,
it's free inside the company,
it's called INTELLECT
they basically, type out abstracts which are really literally,
actually read the actual articles,
they're pretty g ,
Let's see,
mine's pretty easy actually.
I just got done reading a couple magazine articles about the, new Saturns.
although I can't afford it right now, I would just to have one.
you like,
you're an American
you want to buy American.
regardless of that fact.
It's the best car in the class for the amount of money.
I'm interested in having it for, doing a little autocross racing, closed circuit racing
it seems to just blow the competition away.
It terms of handling, acceleration,
Handling, power, everything.
it just got the top rating.
It was compared up against,
let's see,
there was the Mazda M X three, Nissan's, whatever, their thousand, the Civic S I
it dominated over all of them.
loved it.
I seen a few of them actually race
they seem to be really good cars for it.
What about Mustang G T s?
Mustang G T s?
can't afford it.
you're talking about ones in a end, range.
I'm a graduate student
let's face it,
I don't make any money
you can wait till you graduate
you'll have plenty of money,
you can buy whatever you want.
we'll see then.
right now I'm stuck,
got Pontiac Sunbird Turbo that,
it's fast, but unreliable
trying to get it prepared for racing.
nice, just scrap it and go for the
would you use that for city driving and racing?
for both.
The nice thing about autocrossing is do both.
Autocrossing is,
what kind of track is that?
just like a, set up a lot of times
it's like really large, parking lots.
you the
And pylons
track, pylons.
and things.
Tight turns, hard acceleration.
I've seen a lot of Mustangs, compete
it's interesting.
They get dominated by the Corvettes that are also in their class.
I would guess so.
what are you thinking about buying?
I think I'd like to get, B M W if I go the German route, which I'm kind of leaning towards right now, or maybe Acura Legend.
The Legend.
a Lexus, S C three hundred maybe.
Something on that order.
I haven't really determined if I like Japanese or if I like them enough to purchase one. *
because your B M W s, your German cars have good reputations, I think.
actually in,
a lot of the B M W s are produced in, Munich
there this, summer
was really impressed by factory, tours and
such for B M W.
they have the whole philosophy,
kind of even brainwash themselves into thinking they're better,
which is kind of hard to take .
as you're walking through that little tour in, Munich, it's kind of , they're trying to brainwash you, too .
of course,
of course they are.
They want you to buy their car.
also went to, the Porsche
amazing how they were completely opposed.
B M W is really, like, we have all these high tech things
everything is put together with exacting tolerances
you go to Porsche
it's like, these cars are completely handmade
no two of them are alike .
it's like completely opposed.
I don't know,
which do I like better,
I think I like the Porsche's philosophy a little bit better, although it's not really practical.
it's not realistic.
Unless, a toy.
if you can
Let's face it.
afford that kind of a toy, then, I guess, ,
B M W s good for that.
What kind of driving just like commuting you'd want to for?
just work,
short trips.
I'm putting on less than fifteen thousand miles a year.
Wow, yeah.
it's pretty minimal.
That's cool.
Lasts a long time.
That's mainly what I'm looking for.
that's good.
was impressed the Mercedes, too.
like the Mercedes.
The factory was nice
you have a problem with a Mercedes, you take it into a shop, hit you up for just all kinds of things .
is it different B M W?
I think, something on the order of a three series, it's probably different.
Once you get up
in the five series and higher, then, all your repair costs go up significantly .
I can
imagine that.
I'm kind,
I'm not sure if I really want,
All right?
How many kids do you have? .
going to talk about parents spending time with their children.
have three children who are eleven, nine, and eight.
this is the big issue with us. Although I don't recall marking it on my little things to talk about
perhaps they are little for (( words )) to be said like day care and quality time
You don't have children?
you're married?
been married for two and a half years.
We've been trying for about two years but
no luck yet.
I know we're not supposed to do this long distance
I'm getting a call.
I wonder if I could possibly take it on call waiting.
Could I ask you to hold one minute?
I'll be right back.
Excuse me,
(( Had , ))
just a moment.
They're going to get mad .
She had another call.
She has (( just )) three kids, eleven, nine, and eight.
I'm so sorry.
All right.
That was my daughter's Brownie leader telling me that there is a meeting tomorrow
Brownie meeting.
That keeps you bu ,
do you have a lot of activities with your kids?
be a unilateral conversation
we do.
Both my husband and I work
our children are sixth, fourth, and third grade.
the school years are wonderful,
they're just wonderful.
The kids, they are real people
they are interesting
have all their own activities
I think as parents we really enjoy them our personal situation
our children have not yet decided to rebel .
they're pretty good kids, huh?
I'm that's coming though.
they are wonderful kids.
we had (( ni , wh , )) growing up
I guess I can talk about us.
We had nine kids in our family.
We had eight boys and one girl.
my Dad,
You had eight boys and one girl?
the time that we spent with our Dad was, he owned his own business
we worked with him most of the time.
that's how we spent most of the time with him.
Are you Mormons?
That's what the Utah and the large family.
That was a dead giveaway, huh?
we're Catholics.
I came from a family of five.
I had four brothers,
the only girl.
everyone always asked if the girl got spoiled.
I never felt spoiled.
In fact (( I always thought )) my toys were destroyed .
I was going to say, my sister wasn't spoiled very much.
Usually busy fighting for survival.
that's (( )) .
I do think with working parents some real issues here.
that I think,
I don't know.
It's an interesting (( problem. ))
I happen to,
I'm a pediatrician.
My husband is a physician,
(( )) I talk to parents about this a lot.
think working mothers or mothers who choose to work outside the home, (( need )) very early to come to grips with any guilt,
that they feel and decide what's best for them and their family.
I feel when my children were very young, I had jobs that helped me be flexible with my schedule and spend time with them and all that sort of thing.
I long ago decided I'm a better mother because I work outside the home.
I really believe that.
it has, helped us to afford some things for our children that we couldn't otherwise that I think are wonderful particularly at this age,
I think our kids are real secure.
And have a real sense of priorities and that they can do anything and be anything both male and female (( a lot ))
I know it sounds like a rationalization
true for our family,
I think it has worked very well.
It's like you said, to each his own.
we're planning on having my wife stay home.
There's no question,
I think that's really the best.
a woman is happy doing that,
I hate to put it quite that way.
I was twenty nine when I had my first child
I would not have been real fulfilled.
I really would not have been totally staying home with a young child.
to be a mother
way I did it.
I sort of worked half time.
I had very flexible hours.
I nursed all three of our children until they were at least a year
you can do that despite working very easily which is one of the things I preach all the time mothers.
I think we choose carefully the, alternative situations that we had them in.
Some baby sitting groups,
again, I know it sounds like a rationalization,
I really do think sometimes they very early on are around lots of other children
learn to share.
They learn not necessarily to be the center of attention but that at the same time we have to be sure they are secure.
I think that helps.
that's good.
Sounds like you're, have a handle on it.
your wife, does she work right now?
not right now.
She's out,
we just moved down here.
We used to live up in Seattle for a couple of years.
You're still trying to dry out?
no problem here.
we really liked it up there
then wh ,
I don't believe (( that we're )) ,
what do you think about, recycling programs in Atlanta, Julie?
The recycling program here is just terrible.
it's hard to find places to go.
Kroger does a couple things.
do they do newspapers?
I don't know,
big bins out there,
I don't know if they ever get ,
really don't know what the details are.
There should be someplace where you could call and find out.
As a matter of fact, I'm pretty sure there's a place you can call and find out the closest, thing to you,
I think there should be some kind of curbside service.
That's the only way I could really,
The one in Florida is so cool because they pick up everything.
They pick up newspapers and, milk jugs and aluminum and tin cans, like soup comes in and stuff.
They pick up everything.
During the summers, homeless people see ,
they all have shopping carts and
they're go around and collect cans
and aluminum and stuff,
we used to just save them up
they'd come around
we'd give them to them.
during the winter time I think move south or something
Yeah .
I don't do that anymore.
recycling at Georgia Tech, like that, outside the, student center
they never empty those things.
I know it,
I know it.
They just overflow.
It piles up.
what's a guy to do?
I just don't know.
I asked myself.
I just don't know
now they have, bins and stuff that are a little more convenient because, until seven o'clock, you got to pay to park at the student center,
you can't really unload all your stuff.
that's true,
hadn't thought about that.
That is very inconvenient.
Inconvenient, even .
I know it,
I know it.
you do recycle, don't you?
bad about it.
The (( )) ,
s , if I see a pile of cans or bottles or something
I'll throw it in there ,
ever take anything.
it's real,
you ought to, because the farmer's market recycles absolutely everything.
since we go there all the time,
probably (( )) at all.
I've never seen you before .
Who are you?
by the way, may name's Julie.
my name's Bill.
I'm from Atlanta.
Me, too.
is there anything else you'd like to share me about your recycling philosophy, Julie?
I just think that everybody ought to do it.
Do they do
what about,
what kind of plastic stuff can you recycle, do you know?
The only thing I know that you can recycle is milk jugs.
What about like those grocery bags?
they have,
used to,
now that I don't go to the grocery store much, it's kind of moot,
I used to just save up the ones that I got one time
go and hand them to them the next time and use them over and over.
also most places, like Big Star does
I'm not sure if Kroger does or not
They'll ask you whether you want bags or paper or plastic.
have boxes that you can put your old bags in.
Can bring them in.
Those petroleum products are going to kill us.
I know it,
I know it.
The hostile planet, I think,
It really is a small,
hostile planet .
I think are the big,
Did you know that,
the great Satan of the recycling.
really not.
Did you know that, something like fifty percent of the world's landfills is paper?
Filled with paper.
Paper just seems so innocuous.
Paper doesn't seem threatening at all,
It comes from trees.
How can it be bad?
It is, because they,
They treat it with chemicals or something?
Why can't trees break down?
I don't get it.
they do treat paper with chemicals
yellow paper,
takes something like twenty times as long to decompose.
you can bury a piece of yellow paper,
it will still be there in a couple of weeks.
it will be whole.
You'll be able to read
I'm going to switch
off of it.
from those yellow legal pads, then.
I'm glad you told me that, because I use those at work, where I work
I can just
W ,
forget that from now on.
switch to the white ones.
white paper's bad too.
treat it, too.
what about, papyrus, made out of stuff, from the
I'm sure that's fine.
from the
I'm sure.
banks of the Nile.
Maybe we ought to just start carving in stone again.
You think so?
I think we should just abandon written word
You think?
I don't know,
What do you think?
I think we've kind of,
Kind of radical, I know
everybody has a computer.
We would no longer need
That's true.
paper at all.
Everyone had a two way wrist watch T V s on their wrist,
like, Dick Tracy.
I would love that.
how do you,
it sounds like you've got a television going on there,
I can assume that you probably watch the T V news.
Is that,
I almost never watch T V news.
(( I )) ,
I get most of my news driving back and forth to work listening to the radio.
station do you listen to?
it's a local radio station.
It's called, K L I F, cliff.
Cliff, I see,
it's not affiliated with anything, is it.
it's not a network station.
listen to, public radio a lot
K C R W, which I saw a thing recently, they may be trying to start their own, cable TV outlet, I guess.
They're feisty now .
a lot of just ongoing news
occasionally in the morning, I'll pick up something like, C N N or that,
I hate watching the, ten o'clock news
you have a paper or something or,
which is the big paper in Dallas.
it pretty much
from cover to cover.
How do you like it?
a while since I read the Dallas news.
read the news I was in Arkansas.
(( I, )) ,
The TIMES HERALD went out of business here
we really only have one Dallas newspaper and one,
Fort Worth newspaper.
that must be pretty bad.
how did that happen, anyway?
financial trouble.
not how,
(( )) ,
when did it happen?
I guess they closed down about three months ago.
how do you keep up?
me, read the TIMES, LOS ANGELES TIMES.
There's, quite a task if you've ever run into one.
Yes, they're very
(( speci , ))
they're thick.
if there's something you want to know, in the TIMES in detail. *
we used to have two papers here in town
the HERALD EXAMINER collapsed about two years ago because of, I don't know, just nobody was buying it really.
there really is only one major L A now?
pretty much.
there used to be,
fact, I think there still is, DAILY NEWS which runs out of the San Fernando Valley
they're not bad local paper goes.
In fact, it was kind of weird, because I met the editor, doing jury service in Santa Monica one time .
It was like we just sat around and talk about newspapers and stuff.
He was a really cool guy. went to Columbia University and all this stuff.
a pretty good paper,
the TIMES.
Although sorry to see some of their,
a daily rack right around the corner from where I live, which means that expanding, I guess.
occasionally pick up TIME magazine or something I think, if they've got an interesting lead story,
don't have time.
I used to read TIME magazine a lot,
I don't read it much anymore.
kind of a problem for them.
There's a lot of people who fall into that,
we have a local rag here in town that
I pick up periodically and read just to see what's going on in our little community.
I see.
Because we don't get an awful lot of coverage in the DALLAS MORNING NEWS.
the big dailies step much home turf,
I have to admit, the TIMES is kind of provincial, too.
It's basically anything that's south of downtown, they don't bother to cover.
Now, they have started here running a three day, or three times a week Plano section.
it's just sort of four or five pages that covers what's going on in Plano.
it's still not an awful lot of news.
I know.
it was a big discovery when the TIMES found out there was a place called Orange County .
been handling it before, acted like their reporters needed to shots to go south of the L A county border .
I would imagine in Dallas they have plenty happening in Dallas to cover, that it gets hard covering all of the
of course, they tend to cover the county,
we're not in Dallas county,
tend to ignore places outside of the county.
I find that attitude kind of arrogant, though.
It's like you're taking our money,
you're not bothering to cover the things that are interesting to us.
I'll let you start, I guess .
employed by a company that does do, random drug testing
I've got some very definite, opinions about it. which haven't changed all that much from my first reactions announced it. But, developed a little more, I guess, but haven't changed that much.
What about you?
Are you, at all?
I'm not,
my employer does not do that. although, I had an ex employer that,
the previous job I used to have, they,
I had started with them they made it a condition of employment that you pass a drug test.
don't know.
My feeling is that certain jobs that when there's immediate threat to life and limb, if should somebody be under the influence of drugs, be willing to support that.
For example, train engineers.
was an incident several years ago where an Amtrak engineer (( ))
he crashed and killed some people because he was, smoking some marijuana
I guess air traffic controllers. I wouldn't want them to be on drugs. And airplane pilots.
to life and limb or property
I would seriously question it.
that's mine.
go back,
our company claims it's not a constitutional issue. That, because this is, between a company and an employee a government,
it's not,
the Constitution doesn't apply.
it seems to me that it still should.
our company's doing it because they're a, government contractor .
of drug program is required to get the government contracts
it's the government that's mandating it to a certain extent? .
our company has taken that and gone all the way.
first off have enough courage to, pick out the people have some sort of indication of possible drug usage, because that would offend them, weren't.
we'll just accuse everybody of using drugs and,
make it all even.
i ,
it's, complete random testing
it's random in the sense that you don't know when.
It is not random in the sense that they have said that within three years everyone in the company will be tested.
sit at a terminal write software all day.
certainly has no life threatening, capabilities
my job.
agree that jobs that are definitely life threatening
needs to be a line drawn somewhere and proper.
I ,
I agree.
also the issue of,
out here, I remember hearing a year or so ago, that, a lot of,
there was a high error rate in the analysis of drug results.
I shouldn't say high
I mean several percent .
I, that I will give credit company for in I think a couple of levels of tests in terms of drugs.
essentially the first thing order of (( )) paper in the urine some,
it's not quite that simple,
it's fairly simple.
Kind of a coarse kind of test.
Coarse kind of test.
there's much more, refined test, spectrography or whatever it's called. The chemo ,
Is that done,
to determine exactly things are.
Now me ask you this.
at the time you hired on with this company, was that prior to any,
been with this company sixteen years now.
this is obviously not a condition of employment that you subject yourself to this .
they did that three or four years before they did it with everybody.
could justify it in terms of someone new coming in, know.
on the other hand, someone new coming in that knows they're going to have a test,
this is Lois.
this is Lisa.
I called from the T I Data Base Calling Instructions.
I got a call yesterday too.
This is a different subject though.
this is about changes in the women in the,
there's really a lot, isn't there.
Yeah .
I think there really is.
It's kind of an easy thing to talk about.
I guess the work force would be the main, wouldn't it.
I think you have to push one
we can start recording it.
Okay .
All right.
Are you ready now?
like I said I guess it would be the work force, as far as changes in the generations.
I know because, I know when my mother was going into the work force there wasn't very many opportunities for her, I guess,
she's in her late forties.
You were expected to stay home and take care of the kids
I've never faced that at all.
I think you go to work when they're six weeks old,
you stay there.
I feel like the next generation, you'll probably just work right along with your husband,
I think it's definitely gotten better.
I do to, much.
it's just going to get better.
It really is.
women are in every field now,
I can't think of a field that they're not involved in.
I can't either, not a one.
I know at least in the medical field, it seems like they've come out with a lot further advances as far as female medications and things since women have gotten into the doctor field.
I don't think that men really took the time to work on that sort of thing.
even in Washington,
there seems to be a lot more women involved.
Hopefully, the next generation, it won't even be an issue,
people will just look at you as a person and not as a man or a woman,
I think that would be the best goal.
I do too,
just your qualifications
that would be it.
not what color you are, how old you are, what your male or female.
That would be wonderful,
(( I guess )) it's kind of an ideal world though, .
I kind of think, maybe in time, that, you'll go by social security numbers,
that way they can't say they picked a male over a female, female over a male,
or the way you look,
or the way you,
your age or anything.
I think that would be a wonderful way to do it.
I do to
just go by your social security number and then look at you qualifications you have.
if you get it, then,
also, with, women in the work force they've gotten a lot more options as far as, what's it called, job sharing.
if you and another lady were to share the same full time job,
As a matter of fact, that's what I'm doing.
Is it.
it sure is.
That would be great.
It sure is.
a lot of women I know now and supervisors, when she went on L O A to have her baby, we hooked up, a terminal at her house
and could send her messages,
she kept in touch like that,
and basically, just worked out of her house.
I would just take her the actual paperwork once, every week or two,
that worked out great too.
that is.
that's a real attractive option, if you have technology for it.
All it
she just used a phone modem
sitting in the office,
I think that's real nice too, to come up with different options.
Do you like the job sharing?
I do,
Do you?
I really do,
I think it's great.
Do you work like half days, or half weeks or,
one week she'll work three days and I'll work two
the next week, I'll work three *
she'll work two,
that's great,
we just share off like that.
Do you get the full benefits?
we get the full benefits.
that's wonderful.
we've just really got a wonderful system that we're working under.
especially with children, and so many things going on,
that would be great.
It really is,
that way we're not really missing any thing out,
Either way,
of (( )) children,
you have your career and your home life,
that would be a nice way, especially if you have young children.
it is,
it is,
both of ours is school age,
we don't want to miss any of those P T A s and, all of that.
I think,
My son's just in day care
even that they have extracurricular activities
the older they get the more that you're involved in that.
I think it's great,
I really,
I look for more of that in the next generation.
I do too, especially as women get up in management can be in on those decision making,
when that subject comes up they can say yes,
that would be wonderful.
I do too.
Plus, I bet it down on your absenteeism because you've got two days off that you can do everything,
you don't have to, unless you're just really sick, or the child's sick.
Most of the time now, it's just the weekend,
just forget it.
I have to plan way in advance, because,
what I've done is found doctors' and dentists' office with extended hours.
That's been real helpful too,
my doctor stays open til nine in the evening.
that's real helpful,
you don't, have to do it during office hours, run out on your lunch hour.
I don't know how many times I've done that to do something,
To do,
post office or the bank or any kind of errand,
I think we've really come a long way in that because,
I guess I take it for granted, kind of, because, I just,
it's always been that way.
I know,
I can back growing up, my mother,
it was
she always worked,
it wasn't that easy for her to just take off.
I can remember my mother getting in trouble if, one of was sick,
I know she probably didn't make hardly anything, compared to the work that she did.
I think there is still some discrimination there where men and women work in the same job,
I think men get paid more,
I do too.
I think that's improving.
It's such a slow process
it's frustrating,
you can see that it's wrong
you just want to make it right,
at least the wheels are moving forward.
They really are.
I think it's getting better, not worse.
I should probably get back to my job .
I know,
I know the feeling.
Call again.
I sure will.
Bye bye.
bye bye.
Hey, how you doing?
Not bad,
not bad.
What's your name?
My name is Nick.
Let me turn off my stereo here .
Sure .
I've been, waiting, for about ten minutes to get connected to somebody.
Phew .
Man, I'm,
What time is it over th ,
in Dallas?
I'm in Detroit.
not Detroit. I'm in, California.
Are you?
(( I )) .
Because every time I got through, I went to Dallas, Texas.
I'm in North Carolina.
you're on the,
let's see,
On the other coast .
twenty one .
Shoot man, it's, what, midnight almost?
I'm watching SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE here.
All right.
I guess we're supposed to talk,
what about
credit card?
did you get to know about the T I thing?
one of my instructors, said that they were doing something like this
are you working on ?
Masters in, information systems.
I'm doing my Masters computer science and computer engineering.
Where at?
At North Carolina State University.
How do you like it out there ?
I don't. Because, I come from city than this one
in Raleigh
Raleigh Durham.
That area.
it's really small.
you have is like towns built around universities.
Like Chapel Hill?
basically a bunch of small towns anyway.
Kind of quaint little towns
don't have a whole lot there.
Where you at?
I'm in Monterey, California right now .
it's like town probably has two hundred and fifty thousand people
that's about it.
Two hundred fifty?
it's a lot bigger than Monterey is.
we're south of, San Jose and San Francisco.
it's only large city.
where do you go?
Do you go to Berkeley?
naval postgraduate school out here.
Because, I was looking the,
doctorate degree in computer science center at Berkeley .
they're asking for a, G P A of like three point seven or something
like that.
they're looking for, G R E like ninety nine percentile and this and that.
it's like,
that's what they look for.
Whether or not they get it is hard to say . *
I know.
I didn't apply.
it was
Yeah .
for me, it was practically impossible to get between ninety and,
ninety nine percentile verbal part.
It's pretty tough.
It's pretty tough .
let's face it,
I, did the,
as far as,
I found it a lot of times with, regards to education, the school only takes you so far,
It's what you do.
You know.
I don't lose any over stuff like that.
you going to go for your Doctorate?
Probably not.
I'm in the Navy.
most of the Navy funds that I probably won't do it until I,
if I do do it, it will be after I get out of the Navy.
When do you get out?
probably be another twelve years.
okay .
I like what I'm doing right now.
what if they pay for it?
Excuse me?
What if they pay for?
If they pay for a P H D?
they won't pay for it.
maybe two people a year go get, (( get )) their P H D.
Because a couple of people here that work for, the Army.
They civilians or, military?
they're military.
E I
huh .
mean, the guy is still in.
works over in Maryland .
huh .
he's doing his Masters here.
They gave him a scholarship for a year.
he's doing it in in a year and a summer.
he's getting that
they said they got a lot of benefits and that.
That's why you want to join.
this guy,
you can earn a lot more money
you say,
I go why you still there if you can earn a lot more money, once you've get your Masters.
They go, they got a lot of benefits that would go with it
not the money (( in )) .
like what they're doing.
feel good about what they're doing.
That type of thing.
It's more ,
once you get your Masters, you can be earning thirty seven, forty five thousand a year.
huh .
I'm sure.
that's not what they're paying.
it depends on what rank you are, of course .
I know .
like I say, if you're at an upper level in the rank category, you're probably pulling down close to seventy grand a year.
Those are few and far between though.
It's like,
it's like, in I B M.
In I B M, you can get certain points
everyone's a manager.
nobody can get one more point to become, whatever you need to earn so much money.
Since I imagine it's fairly competitive.
It's like,
I B M is like,
there's a joke about I B M which says, it's like,
the major companies get into boating race, right?
I B M says to have a team, right.
huh .
they come in last
they have this whole team, analyze why they came in last right. Because the (( person )) asked for it.
he goes, the problem was that there were five people saying row, row, row and one person rowing, right.
he goes,
They go, yeah,
change the rower .
it's like everyone's a,
it's like
one person does the work
Too many chiefs and not enough Indians.
I don't know,
can really slow you down.
that's the way it works.
why they're having problems.
everyone's a manager
I didn't realize that.
the people that actually do the work there
are, very few.
the other people just plan it,
have you, have
(( )) push paper around.
have you ever seen the commercial for Federal Express think tank?
all these people are just around, just going, what shall we do?
Has anybody thought of anything?
this guy from Express comes along.
They go what's that? This track which it's going around the world
they can tell you where your package is anywhere, any time.
it's the same thing with I B M.
they have this think tank.
they got to come up with ideas.
thing is, that I B M is so stabilized that everybody will buy their stuff.
lock on a lot of the market.
a lot of times you figure, with the support that they provide,
people generally go with that because they figure that you probably won't get fired for getting I B M material.
Where's if you try something different, they'll
it fails
you're dead.
they'll say yeah,
something more mainline.
I B M doesn't fire anybody.
what they do is put you in a different job.
Which actually are like sitting around not doing anything.
you quit.
that's their policy.
They never fire anybody unless you're caught doing something illegally.
Illegal or something like that,
if you're stealing something or doing anything like that .
they won't let you off.
What they'll do is
suppose, you're a manager.
they'll put
you into keeping up the paper,
It's like how much paper is going in?
say that's not my job,
you quit.
in other words, that's the way they force
people out .
That's why they can say, there's no layoff
really say that,
always going to have great career
that's kind of sad.
have just different policy.
I don't know.
My dad works for them
it's like I B M never in their commercials, they never put down any other company,
It's like
they won't say,
they're the standard right now.
as far as that goes, people think of computers, they think of I B M a lot of times.
the main,
what happens is they have a good backup policy.
anybody can fix it.
that's what you're going to go for.
that's a big thing.
it's like, for example, Leading Edge.
Have you ever heard of Leading Edge?
They are out of Korea right.
Leading Edge.
Don't they pro ,
made small personal computers.
Small P C s.
(( )) they're out of Korea right?
I don't know.
I don't know.
buy all the parts that I B M would throw away.
And build an I B M P C with all the parts that I B M would throw away.
yeah .
(( )) for example, you test a chip.
It can't last seven years
it can last five.
I B M says let's throw it away.
Leading Edge will say we'll buy it from you.
they're still around I think.
them around anyway. (( )) .
that's what they do.
They buy the things that I B M throws away
why they're so compatible.
by the time you have computer for five years, you're going to throw it away anyway.
Most people do.
they have to anyway.
in a way you realize,
got this computer which,
it's voice, synthesizing stuff.
he got that.
He said, it's like,
I was testing it *
it was wonderful.
when you tried to erase and correct, all the errors in your voice, it takes up all your memory.
I want more,
it's like Jesus Christ,
it's like why do you want more.
Because it's one second of recording.
you put into Wave
you want to correct the errors into Wave,
it takes so much,
it's like,
of course it does.
by the times it transforms into Wave by mark off model
you put it in there,
you want to correct those.
you're trying to make Wave smooth
you can approximately,
of course it's going to take a lot.
It's amazing.
what it is for us to make mark off models,
It's like, Jesus Christ.
right down to it, more they can do for you, the more memory they're going to require.
in terms in Ram as well as, standard
memory or
like they say, nobody can get enough,
It's like once you have something,
(( it's like ))
You find out more,
I was watching this program on T V yesterday.
In nineteen seventy six
NASA came up with Three D graphics.
they were showing this view of
Like the (( )) deal?
Like a hologram?
With just graphics a,
video game stuff.
Okay .
the only thing was, that it was just lines,
Like if you ,
I guess, I'm going to school while I'm working at T I,
there's not a whole a lot of time that I've got, for hobbies it seems like lately.
one of the things that I do when I've got some spare time is I do some woodworking.
that, I guess, ranges anywhere from, carpentry work to, some types of furniture and, I don't know what you would call them, knickknacks, I guess, stuff you hang on the wall to put a mirror on
I made some, candle sconces that you hang on the ...
I have quite a few of those that my uncle made.
There's something about working with wood I enjoy, that,
I don't know if it's the saw dust or the mess you make or the smell of the wood
As you know, I think it's more like the mess you make, isn't it?
You don't have to worry about cleaning it up.
because out there.
I don't have to worry about getting stuff on the carpet except when I track in saw dust,
the wife gets kind of aggravated about that,
then, I get the opportunity to vacuum,
I guess I get some of both.
What are some of your things you like to do?
when I have time I do like to sew,
I had been doing a lot of crocheting.
I make a lot of afghans or used to make a lot of them.
My mother was real heavy into crafts,
I would help her with whatever she happened to be doing,
she would go to these, arts and crafts shows and sell her needlework.
a lot of times I'd help her with that.
I haven't had much opportunity to work on any other craft stuff lately
we've been trying to start up a business and then trying to get my garden going.
it's a good time for gardening.
it's been beautiful this last week
I could do with a little less wind,
I think temperature has been pretty good so far for working outside.
Do you find you do most of crocheting or your knit work around Christmas time?
I usually start in the fall.
my husband says I do it, make afghans so I can keep my lap warm.
that's kind of what my wife says.
She enjoys doing it during the cold weather because she's always got something to cover legs and feet with while she is working on it.
I know it seems like, she,
I think she made three this year one for, my father in law and then a couple of brothers and sisters.
those things they take some time to make.
I found one that's real easy,
shoot, I can't even remember the name of it now,
you make it in strips.
it's real easy to do,
it's just that it doesn't keep your feet quite as warm because you do it in strips like that
that's kind of like quilting.
I think tha ,
Mile a Minute.
That's the name of it.
Mile a Minute.
Mile a Minute.
I'm not sure what she does
first thing that comes to mind is some kind of chain stitch because she starts and goes all the way across, back and forth until she winds up with this big piece afghan.
I guess that is your standard knitting, isn't it?
Usually single crochet is always starts it off.
I know,
If we have a problem with our connection and get disconnected some time or other, don't worry about it.
We have very small phone company down here.
my husband says that's called rinky dink .
Instead of call waiting or call anything else.
We can't have that down here.
We get disconnected all the time.
I guess one way to end a conversation.
it gets a little aggravating.
I've got kids all over the United States
sometimes they get disconnected when I'm talking to them.
have you started your garden yet?
We planted, potatoes and onions and bell peppers.
what else did I get in there,
and jalapeno peppers.
always got to have those.
I think I had four, jalapeno plants last year.
I think one of them died,
I've put them, I chop them up and put them in jars and usually give them away because can eat all of those
nobody else in the family likes them,
always got to the keep those planted.
my husband doesn't like them either,
I can always give them away.
that's kind of the way I am,
Besides they're fun to grow.
I planted, zucchini last year.
I planted four hills of them.
I think I had three or four seeds in each one of them,
those things just flat took over.
it wasn't until late, I guess in the summer,
maybe it was because it was too dry,
they finally started making zucchini,
I'm not sure when a good time to plant those is, if they should be planted early or later.
It seems like all I got was,
Supposedly after the soil warms up.
I would think so,
seems like went leaf,
it wasn't until late in the summer they started making fruit.
I don't know if I,
Mom would say you planted them in the wrong sign of the moon.
looked at a farmers almanac to find out when a good time for zucchini is.
doubt if zucchini is in there.
It may not be,
it may not be.
Probably the same time other squash is though.
You think they're later in the year?
About the same time that you plant okra because it's supposed to be warm.
that's true.
Most of the okra that is growing around higher later okra.
Well that's about,
We decided this year,
Go ahead.
I'm sorry,
go ahead.
I was just going to say, it's a little over six or seven minutes.
whenever you feel comfortable about concluding, I'm,
that would be fine.
just any time.
all right.
I guess we'll call this one quits
thanks for participating.
All right.
I've enjoyed talking to you.
All right,
have a good time.
You said you have four cats?
I have four cats.
How old are they?
they range from, let's see about a year and a half to nine years old.
I haven't had my oldest one quite nine years,
I've had him probably five years.
you get so attached to them.
I love my cats.
I lost one, one time,
the first one I got.
He jumped off the balcony actually, of a second story apartment.
he'd never been outside, by himself outside.
it started raining
I was hysterical.
you would have thought a child had died.
I called everyone I knew,
I had every friend I knew in the apartment searching for this cat.
I understand.
they laughed at me,
they thought that was so hysterical.
I understand,
gone through the same things with ours,
I take off work,
to take care of my cats,
my boss thinks I'm absolutely crazy.
we had a baby
its like, all right who comes first the cat or the baby.
The cat was here first
. I know,
it's hard.
when we go to sleep at night, it's like my husband and I have to try to get any space on the bed because we have all four of them up there with us.
how funny.
It's like all right, whose corners is this one.
That's sweet,
I have the two,
the other two cats I have are outdoor cats.
they didn't used to be actually,
they got kind of wild and weren't doing very well inside,
I put them outside once I got a house
they're doing great out there,
they love it.
I got he doesn't want anything to do with outside unless you're there.
Other than that he gets scared to death.
If you shut that door he goes into hiding.
I think it's from the time he jumped off the balcony .
that's it .
Lord knows what happened to him.
He's probably been through all kinds of nightmares.
traumatized for life here.
all four of ours are house cats.
Are they.
We started out outdoor cats
our neighbor decided he didn't like cats and shot one of them.
he lived through it,
I couldn't believe it.
We went through twenty two hundred dollars worth of vet bills.
my gosh.
cat almost died,
he turned out to be such a wonderful cat,
he loves life now.
I imagine.
he's like thank you so much.
I wonder how many of his lives he missed, when that happened.
I know,
we wondered about that.
that was a traumatic experience for us too.
I can imagine,
what did he shoot him with.
from what we can tell it was a pellet gun
he started chasing him with a bull whip.
my gosh.
People are crazy.
absolutely nuts.
luckily enough, we found the cat in time and, rushed him to the vet
it took us about six weeks of in and out of the vet and surgery
tod ,
he started off as a stray
we did all this for him .
he's been a wonderful cat.
I imagine.
They usually are after something like that happens to them.
It seems to mellow them or something.
I don't see us without pets, without cats.
they just fill this void.
talking about getting rid of my outdoor cats because I feel like take care of them as well because they're outside,
it worries me that one day one of them won't come back,
I feel like they need a big home, a nice place where someone can have the time to play with them and things.
I can't give them up.
go hysterical when they don't come home.
you worry about, who's taking care of them.
every time you see one hit on the side of the road you say is that my cat.
you go crazy thinking it might be yours.
I didn't realize my husband was such a sucker for animals until I brought one home one night.
I had one we had to put to sleep he got so sick.
I fell in love with this, it's a Chinchilla Persian,
and, brought him home,
my husband just died.
It was like we can't take it back
to keep it now.
It's here now,
we have to keep it.
first one that I got,
I had just moved away from home and got my own apartment.
It took me about two weeks to realize, that was real lonely.
I found this one
actually it was on a sign at Taco Bell drive thru that said free kittens.
I thought well that's interesting,
I'll call them.
he was the only one left
his mother had been killed coming back across the road to make sure she'd gotten all her kittens.
he was the last one she carried across,
the whole big sad story.
of course, I had to take him.
I felt so sorry for him after that.
weaned too young because he'll nurse on your ears and your fingers.
I asked the vet why he did that
he said he was probably weaned too young, which he was, because his mom was killed,
he is the lovingest cat.
like him.
He never meows,
doesn't have any front claws,
I had him declawed,
he doesn't bite anybody
kind of there, real friendly and docile.
that's good.
we love them.
They, get to feeling so lovey and dovey
they'll come up just start kneading in our chest
it's like your claws need trimming.
that doing biscuits,
it looks like their kneading bread . *
it just drives us nuts.
I just love cats.
I like dogs,
they're okay,
I had,
I had a dog when I lived at home
they're a lot more trouble than cats actually.
They really are.
The cats are so independent
they have so much more personality than a dog.
they do.
they're so much fun to watch them play.
they are.
I love it,
it's so funny to get more than one cat together, because it brings out their personalities.
they just act so funny.
we've got,
the two that were outside, they're like brothers,
I've never seen two cats so close.
they, will get to playing chase through the house,
it is hysterical,
the other two cats will follow in pursuit.
It's like this train.
A train of cats running around.
it sounds like a train.
We have wooden floors
it just sort of echoes through the house .
how funny,
I can imagine.
I wouldn't give anything for my cats.
I love them to death.
just, they're wonderful,
What are your cats' names.
we have, Bonzo, Bear, Poindexter, and Felix.
how sweet.
what do you have.
I have Xanadu and Precious, and Rascal.
Precious and Rascal are brother and sister
they don't look a thing a like.
Precious is a medium hair yellow cat,
Rascal is a black and white short hair.
They don't look a thing a like,
Not a thing, goodness gracious.
they came from the same litter and everything.
We have, tortoise which is a black orange.
she's so ugly.
So ugly she's cute,
you can't help but love her.
the oldest one very possessive.
it's like nobody messes with her mamma.
it comes bedtime
she's right there.
Is she the oldest one?
she's the oldest.
in fact I got her when I moved out of the house also.
wouldn't have,
if something happens to her.
I know
it's like the end of the world.
It will be.
I know that's how I am about Xanadu.
You get so attached to them.
My mother has dogs
I'm like, no.
This is nothing like cats.
You can walk a dog
that's okay for weekend
cats are good all the time.
I'm so glad my husband is a cat person because if he was a dog person, no, it wouldn't have worked.
It wouldn't have,
that would be a problem .
that's one of the requirements I asked him.
I said, you do like cats, right.
We don't li ,
Have you seen those,
do you ever read COSMO.
There was cartoon in COSMO about a year or two ago
it had this man sitting on a couch with his date
there were cats hanging all over him. Hanging on his clothes,
they had ripped him up
the couch was ripped up and down at the bottom
he said, of course I love cats.
they were just all over him and sitting on his head, the whole nine yards.
It was so funny.
the whole time I was pregnant they kept saying, are you getting rid of your cats,
are you getting rid of your cats.
You can't be pregnant and have cats.
I'm like, no, no, no.
Watch me.
the child will learn to like cats.
and deal with them,
I'm sorry,
we are not getting rid of the cats.
I wouldn't either.
There'd be no way.
The whole family was so disappointed .
That's life,
that's how life goes.
we love them to death.
I know,
I love mine too.
it's been nice talking to you.
it was nice talking to you too,
I enjoyed it.
Me to.
take this subject much more personally than I do, I suppose.
I suppose I do because I've seen a lot of those changes, the changes that women have had in the last fifteen years
twenty years, going from,
take it back, thirty years
I'm going back too far, from my parents' generation when mom stayed home, period
there was no such thing as a job or any hope of a job,
if you were educated teach for a year or two before you got married.
if you really pushed it, you taught until you had kids or something
a teacher. Then, that was it, until the kids were little.
weren't supposed to want a job.
supposed to be any reason to use this education or this brain that you might have for anything other than your house and your children and how clean can the bathroom floors be on any given day.
of course today it's supposed to be all the other way.
You're supposed to only want the job,
your kids should be totally happy in day care, because everybody else goes to day care
we have these wonderful people who are
who are totally prepared your child everything they need to know in day care
we'll see how the generations go.
a really good day care is probably going to cost more than you're going to make at the job.
at least for a lot of women
depending what she did.
T I,
I did it for six years
for one,
I had one while I was pregnant,
one while my oldest was a year old,
it just drove me crazy.
Did you,
I could not do either well enou ,
I couldn't put in enough overtime that was necess , or things that would come up at work, that would require me to stay late or to come in early or to do something on Saturdays
needed, because my husband for a long time was out of the country
also work, for three months
it was you and the kid
and your work schedule is.
that's the thing,
maybe if you get along
for example if you'd been a technician instead of an engineer.
the technicians work the eight to five job
might have been better.
and know when they're going to be there.
if you're going to be more professional oriented, then you've got to have this, to be able to perform well on the job
you've got to have the flexibility that doesn't really go with the family.
it was,
in my case, I just, decided that, as long as my kids were little, I would be better off at home with them, instead of driving myself crazy trying to do everything at once.
you figure one of these days you're going to go back to being an engineer?
Is that what you're saying?
actually I've found out that I'm not going to go back to being an engineer.
What will you,
I'm a photographer now.
you've found something else.
branched out.
I was a photographer before,
when I went to college like I couldn't support myself if I decided to be a photographer
that it would just have to be a hobby,
I'm very mechanical,
mechanical engineering interested me,
I did that.
did that for six years.
I stayed home with my son, and did nothing.
And found out great,
I was bored part of the time, too.
I wanted something else to do,
you figure there's got to be more to life than sitting here playing with this child.
great while they're really little,
as they get older
and they're more independent, and there's things to do, then it's good for them to go to different,
goes to mother's day out program now once a week.
Both of my kids do,
the socialization with other kids, not really school, a different authority than mom, once in a while, kind of learning how to deal with society.
they need that, to be able to relate to other people besides
I think they do, too.
the same person every day.
I need it for the break.
that's the other thing,
they talk about women leaving the home and going out to work,
still taking care of the children is a very important job.
someone's got to do it, and be able to do it right,
And enjoy it,
the whole thing.
if it's not mom dad or somebody's got to move in there
and do the job, because the kids really need it.
I think that's the thing that were going to see,
I think the biggest thing we're going to see coming up in the next ten year, A even now they're starting to do it,
I think it's going to be more in the next ten to fifteen years, is that there's going to be a lot of women,
they're going to have to work it out to working part time.
I had been allowed to work, maybe thirty hours a week instead of fifty hours a week, I might still be working basically full time or part time,
some way to work it out,
I liked my job really well.
I was just pulled in so many different directions
just driving me crazy.
now, with the photography, working,
that's what I'm doing, is working part time because I can put my kids in a day care situation for a few hours in the, week
and use those hours to do.
The thing that I'm doing is taking school pictures
in day cares and in Mother's Day Out programs, and
also soccer teams, and, different stuff like that.
my kids can be in day care for a few hours a week,
my husband, at home, can take care of them.
jobs have to, I guess, become more flexible.
I think they're really going to have to, just for mothers, for fathers as well.
It's going to have to be both.
that's another thing that has to adapt is, father's attitudes about, job is this.
his job too.
to me the only important issue is the children,
as far as housework goes, men can do housework just as easily as women,
thanks to a lot of new inventions, housework doesn't take as much time as it used to.
It's just convincing your husband
conv ,
enough for him to do it.
if he saw mom doing only that
all the time he was growing up
then it's hard to think of it
should do it
you talk,
or just to think about doing it rather than having someone
tell him to do it.
I know that was a big thing in our house for a
long time was that if I wanted my husband to do something to help, even though we were both working the same number of hours, doing things, I had to come in there specifically and say
this needs to be done,
this is what you do it now.
a man might say out loud, I understand this
I agree,
still he was raised with a mom taking care of him
that's a very hard attitude to change.
it's just they don't look at things.
Most of the men don't walk into the kitchen and see that the dishes are there and that yes, you probably ought to unload the dishwasher and load the new ones in and run it.
They scoot it on another spot on the sink and put the next plate down, and in a while get around to it.
I think most women walk in and with, got to clean all this up. Got to get this out and this in and this, taken care of, instead of having someone say
now, this needs to be do , this is the time this needs
to be done,
a lot of that how it was drilled into you when you were a kid.
That's right.
Which brings us back to the idea, someone's got to be there taking care of the kids to drill in these
drill in the right ideas
to, so that they know that, male and female are both responsible for doing this
I think going to show up a lot more now, next generation boys and girls.
the boys in this next generation are not going to have to be told as much
this needs to be done, because mom was there saying
that dad is there,
you both got to, they were
both working at whatever things to be done.
They're going to say to the kids
you need do this, because it needs to be done
not because it's a woman's job or a man's job, but because it's dirty
and it needs to be clean.
I think in between we got who didn't learn to take responsibility because mom left to go get a job and dad didn't move in to fill the gap.
basically no one was taking the responsibility
it's going to,
I think that's happened in a lot of cases.
It's going to,
some kids are really having it.
If they'd been in day care the entire time and it wasn't,
the ones that are now getting to be teenagers and in some cases, young college.
some time day care is really good,
sometimes, baby sitting.
It's someone, keeping an eye on the kids
the kids are basically doing what they want
and not really having any relationship with the adults to say, here's what's right
here's what wrong,
here's what we expect of you.
I think that was one of the main reasons that I quit, was because I wanted my kids to have my values,
I felt like when they were young, that was the time to instill it.
That added to and strengthened as they grew older, but when they were little,
this is the way I feel about this,
this is the way, because that,
if you, if you teach them when they're little the way you want them to be, and the things that are important to you, then add onto it as they get older.
if no one does anything when they're little, then it's twice as hard they get older.
I'm saying this as I'm trying to keep my nine month old from trashing something.
I understand,
I wait until I put mine in bed before I make my calls.
she's usually in bed by this time,
she's staying up late tonight.
I want to have a relationship with her.
my dad was a very traditional dad,
when I was a child I didn't really know my dad very well,
I miss that.
I want,
That's the thing,
change drastically, men's roles will, too.
men have to be convinced of that.
a lot of it's for the better.
women's roles, I think, are almost for the worse, because we're losing out on some things, going back to work,
I think expand the men's roles at the same time, like your taking care of your child, and your dad probably didn't very often
I know mine almost never did ...
I haven't seen too many lately.
I have kids
we went and saw THE RESCUERS DOWN UNDER, Under,
over break.
you have kids you take to movies
no kids.
It's a Walt Disney movie
it didn't get good a reviews as the LITTLE MERMAID, their last one, and got all kinds of Academy Awards and things last year.
this one excellent.
The (( )) ,
Was that the animated version?
it's animated.
I can't believe how good they're getting with their animation now.
It's the special effects,
in this movie, boy
he rescues this, bald eagle
it's a huge eagle, wing span of twenty feet or something like that.
the boy actually rides on his back
he rides through the clouds,
you see him coming out of the clouds, his head coming out and then the bird coming out,
flying all over with it.
I know must have computers or something for animation this day,
it was just so real, realistic and lifelike and good animation.
It was a good show.
Even better than ROGER RABBIT insofar as animation?
ROGER was a composite one.
(( Yeah )) .
movie I've seen, ROGER RABBIT.
That's not a recent movie,
I enjoyed that show.
that was made years back, I guess.
one I've saw which was a mistake to go see was LIONHEART,
had Claude Van Damme.
of course, I guess he's trained in this, martial arts of some sort,
the plot was bland,
the acting was bland.
It was just mostly centered upon his abilities to
Chop them up,
chop them up,
This is supposed to be guy that's, replaces Bruce Lee or whatever or,
or the next Chuck Norris type of guy.
he's singular I guess,
You know how they can make them in a movie to be a
superstar of any sort,
Chuck Norris, of course, could be just about equal,
if not more
all of them, I guess, could be in that fashion,
or category.
It was about, a,
(( )) .
French Foreign Legion fellow who deserts to go help his brother's wife a widow because he was selling drugs ,
he got killed.
Really uplifting, ?
he deserts and goes to New York
he starts out by fighting to make money,
he moves on to L A to is to just help him out.
think there's some real dummies out there or something.
I don't know .
much about that movie.
other than it was a chop them up movie.
I guess that's one I won't go see .
it was worth the buck I guess.
you went to the dollar movie?
they show up at the dollar movie right after they out.
they're usually that great or didn't do that great anyway.
A lot of,
Let me see.
Let me see
another movie I watched.
I want to see, that new one, that won all those Academy Awards this year, DANCES WITH WOLVES.
I haven't seen that.
Have you seen that one yet?
absorbed all of that movie in one sitting.
I guess what made it so good was the
wide open, the spaces,
and the music
it had an excellent story line.
Everything about it was good.
I thought an excellent one, too, was MISERY with Kathy Bates and James Caan.
I'm not a James Caan fan,
that was a well directed and acted movie.
Is that right?
I'd recommend it.
It's a little on the violent side
then what movie isn't anymore.
our movies today, it used to be X
P G s used to be R s
seems like the rating system, is kind of switching that way a little bit .
I have no objections to it.
It's just,
it's a matter of your taste,
It's just that,
it's just that the rating system seems, instead of having X now, they have what, N C seventeen?
They just changed it because X had a connotation with it,
even on those type they don't show what you expect.
A lot of those are really violent type movies.
Really gory.
that seems to be the norm of most movies,
what the hey.
This is America.
Let me see.
One movie I saw, I guess it was a while back, RED OCTOBER.
Have you seen that one?
I have.
That was pretty good.
I read the book before
I knew the story line going in,
they changed some things in the movie.
It wasn't the same.
I thought the book was better than the movie,
I thought the movie was really good as well.
I always wait for the movie.
I don't have time to read the book.
I don't,
I read about one or two thick novels like that a year.
that's about all the time spare.
that was a good show I thought,
I read about how they did, an article on how they did all the special effects with the submarine.
that wasn't a real submarine you saw in the water.
all done in studio with smoke and mirrors and all the Hollywood magic.
All those underwater scenes.
I thought,
it looked to me like it was a real submarine,
They (( )) ,
that was in the water,
That's the magic of Hollywood, special effects.
I hear this movie F X part two coming out is, pretty good.
Is that right?
Did you ever see the original one?
I didn't.
It was,
you ought to rent the, F X part one.
It doesn't say part one,
F slash X.
What's that about?
A, special effects man who somehow gets involved in this,
I'm not sure.
I can't remember.
It's been a while since I've seen it.
gets involved in some sort of bad dealings with somebody
he has to go underground,
he uses all of his special effects knowledge in doing what needs to be done.
fool people
(( )) ,
and using makeup and using the
All the tricks.
all the props and whatever to get to where he needs to go.
That sounds like an interesting concept.
you need to rent the first one first.
To understand what's going on in the second?
that is that the second one follows the first.
I don't know if they have the, original actors on that first one to that one.
They're supposed to be coming out with all these Desert Storm movies,
this summer, too .
I expected those.
were doing their dealings with that before they even got over there, I think.
they had some,
in some of those, retitled some movies that were going to be about Lebanese and,
and Americans
they decide, make it Iraqis and Americans,
they just change the title reshot a few parts, could.
I guess they figured we tell the difference between an,
Actual names,
will not be used.
Eventually I'm sure they will come out with the,
the, the proper names.
Right .
It was such a,
I guess probably come out with a lot of movies,
such a rout though,
I don't know,
they probably do the story of someone who was shot down early in the war or something and how he survived or,
Latest story,
or about, or about those two newsmen or whatever that got captured.
Kevin Costner I understand is supposed to be play Schwartzkopf, supposedly.
Is that right?
I don't know.
That's just one of the many rumors that floats around.
Or what you read.
I think we've probably,
Pretty much used up the tape, I guess.
it's been about five minutes.
It's been nice talking with you.
Keep on watching those movies,
Talk to you on the next go around.
Bye bye.
Are you going to tell me what you've been doing lately in the
I'll offer anything that I can on the subject.
my husband and I recently
we bought, this house about, I don't know, year and a half ago.
What we have here now is just a basic three bedroom, two bath, brick house which is, completely different from what I had had before.
When I was working and before I married, I lived in a little town south of here that is just full of old homes and, historic old houses and things like that
I, tried to,
I was in the process of renovating a house that was about seventy five years old.
it had to have everything done from top to bottom to having it leveled, jacked up, new plumbing, new wiring, wallpaper, paint,
everything you can think of,
that house had to have .
You are experienced I would say.
really did enjoy it,
it was amazing what I found out I could do on my own if I just put my mind to it.
I agree.
I have done something, like that, too, only not nearly as extensive.
it must be interesting now trying to do something to a basic ranch,
It is.
style home.
It is.
after having a one that was historical looking.
When, I met my husband, he was living in an apartment at the time
the town that I was living in only about eighty miles from here.
really it was just
the market was so good,
we hadn't really planned on buying
as you probably heard Dallas and Texas area period the housing market is just unreal.
you can get things for such a song.
really why we ended up in a house like this.
This is not want to stay in forever, because hands into stuff
I'm always just wanting to paint wallpaper and redo and redo,
ready to get ahold of another one that I can have a little more input into
maybe you can, make that one charming make a little bit money,
the key,
the thing is, when we moved in they had just, painted, new carpet and everything
I feel sort of, like it's sort of defeating my purpose to go rip everything out now and do it over just because I'm in the mood to do it.
we'll see,
we'll see how much longer we're here.
we just moved to Charlotte,
from Enid, Oklahoma.
Oklahoma of all places.
I know,
of what you're talking about,
as far as the market was concerned
I'll tell you, had kind of a charming house.
It was a cedar shake house,
and very weathered.
it was about fifty years old,
but looking,
I tried to make it, after I sold my business
I spent almost three years redoing.
I considered it a full time job
it is,
when we did,
we kind of had planned this, trek to the east,
because we're both originally from this part of the country.
I see,
I think some of the things that I did paid off.
For instance,
one thing that I did that might even be a good suggestion for you
was something I did on the outside.
I love old sales.
I happened to go to just a little estate sale
just a little white frame house,
where the couple, was very old,
and had gone into nursing homes
all the men started going down to the barn.
oh .
I, th ,
shoot I'm going,
That's where I need to go .
I'm going to the barn, too.
They, auctioned some tools and,
things like that,
then they went over and started, auctioning this big stack of bricks.
I thought, gee, I've been wanting to,
do some brick, walkways
for a time.
it ended up after some pretty, heavy bidding,
that I got all those bricks for forty dollars.
my word.
my husband and I loaded bricks in his,
pickup truck for days.
my word.
what we ended up with was about four thousand.
For forty dollars?
For forty dollars.
what we did,
we had built a deck on the back of that house,
it needed
it was quite large out to,
into the yard
on either side of it to the ends of the house it just needed to be all tied together.
made brick patios, and walkways.
how fun.
how nice.
did the digging,
which was about six inches,
I figured the sand and all,
had that delivered and,
leveled it
placed most all the bricks.
it turned out beautifully.
I bet.
what satisfaction to know that you did it in such an inexpensive way .
it nearly killed me .
you did back and say, doesn't this look nice.
I hated to leave it.
let me ask you,
when you laid those bricks,
I know my parents bought a house about ten years ago,
they're fixing to sell it again, move again.
They're kind of,
my mom's like I am.
She's a renovator, a lover of old things
they have to be doing something constantly.
the patio that came with that house, was not laid on a,
I don't know if you can put some sort of a plastic sheeting or something on top of the sand and then lay the bricks.
a problem with these little sand bugs or something
that drill in between all these bricks.
of course you have weeds that come up in between the bricks things like that.
didn't have that trouble because, we laid the,
I did get some material
and studied every bit of material that I could study,
we laid those bricks about as close as you can get them,
I see.
when you start
we put them on a base of four inches of
swept sand in between,
it was an error leave like an eighth of an inch or whatever.
You just put them together as close as you can.
As tight as you can.
That's probably, because they had,
every spring my mom says we're going to have and tell everybody, guess what,
redo the patio,
we're going to pull up all the bricks,
haven't brought themselves to do it.
I also used a rubber hammer, a lot,
if it wasn't quite level or something, I'd just get that,
rubber hammer and prob ,
I think that they could,
if they have problems with, sand bugs of some kind
I think all they need to do is probably put some insecticide down in there
on fairly regular basis,
for a while anyway.
the thing that's funny is things like that,
I'll catch her out there spraying around,
it's like, in two days time they'll come home from work
those little things are back.
It's just, they're the most resilient little characters
I don't know what they're finally going to do.
She may just,
hopefully they'll sell the house,
and go somewhere else .
I think,
she won't have to worry about it.
I think she needs to take them to the extension agent and ask him what they are
What are these things?
is it (( diazinon ))
what is it that will,
(( Dursban )) or something like that.
(( Dursban )) ,
take care of them.
I think in this area or most all areas they use,
for ticks and fleas.
awful hard to do anything with.
that's true.
That's true.
dad farms
she's always telling him, isn't there something you can bring home with you that kills everything that you spray, field, that you can get rid of,
these bugs,
I bet (( Dursban )) would do it.
do it,
and four cats,
she's sort of, real funny about what she sprays.
I think, you probably just need to make sure that it dries,
very, very
before she lets her cats out, or something,
like that.
gosh, Deb, we could talk all day couldn't we .
I know,
was just, it just seems
said when I heard what the subject was, I thought gosh I haven't thought about, what I went through at that other house in so long.
I've been so busy.
I don't know
of everything that I did, I guess I enjoyed probably wallpapering the most
I thought that would be the hardest thing to do.
gosh, I ended up wallpapering every bedroom in that house, up the stairway,
I just had a ball with it,
it was so much fun.
I've sworn up and down,
great grandparents had this huge Victorian house in Paris, Texas,
the one thing that she ended up with the old door,
on the front door of that house
she has that up in her attic
I have sworn that it,
I'm going to find a house to put that door on before she does .
as far as looking toward the future, that's my plan.
I'm going to have to move fast,
I think, though, because, as a,
All right, do you do exercise?
I do,
guess it actually changes,
I do a number of different things
simply walking with my wife
sometimes my daughter will come along on her little bicycle.
moving up, I run
in the mornings,
not every morning, it probably averages about two days a week
with my wife I actually go to the gym and lift weights, which isn't, I understand, quite exercising,
it's along the lines,
How about yourself.
that's a hard question to answer because I do physical things, but I don't always set out for them to be exercise.
I walk with my parents, occasionally,
nothing's real regular about this because I have a weird schedule and they have a normal schedule,
I play racquetball,
I haven't since I've been out of school.
I don't have anywhere to do that,
that's going to start soon again
I play softball once a week, which is kind of more recreation than exercise.
I really don't like to exercise,
I think that's the basic point of it, is don't enjoy it
if I know that it's exercise,
if it's like a social activity or a recreational activity, I don't mind
I have to disguise it,
it's like feeding little babies food and telling them it's something else so that they'll eat it.
That's right.
That's kind of the same thing for me.
I have to not know that it's exercise so I can do it.
you look at it more as a task.
if it's exercise, it's a task.
I don't want to do anything I have to do.
I see.
I'll voluntarily clean the bathroom,
I won't do it if I have to do it.
I'm thirty two years old
which is probably different than yourself
I'm twenty two.
it's interesting that as you get older you begin to understand that you need to exercise.
My job at Texas Instruments, I have to sit in front of a computer all day and make phone calls, so, that, I don't get any exercise doing that
plus there's a build up of stress
I need to go out and take those walks after dinner,
I need to go out in the morning and run
I'll just get nuts
that's kind of a motivator,
even though I can look at it as a task, global benefit
from the whole thing by saying, I'm lowering my chance of heart attack, and type stuff.
Eating right and no cholesterol and all that.
that all,
do all that.
I'm sure, I will do,
I'm doing that more and more than I used to
I'm getting better about this knowing that I need exercise and doing it, it's still at the task stage.
Is it a pleasure for you,
are you,
it's a,
something as simple as a walk with my wife is very enjoyable.
I do that at the end of the day,
it takes,
during that time the stress from the day goes away.
I get to share whatever I did with my wife, vice versa.
Going to the gym actually something different
and the running,
I enjoy that too.
I've been running since high school
on track teams and the like,
running, at that point which you probably get to after about six months of dedicated
running where you don't feel your muscles any more
you don't think about the pain of it.
you take the time to relax some how
you think about other things.
During those first few months you have to think about running and why your elbow hurts and
huh .
why you can't breathe and this and that,
that's no fun.
it's so hard to get past that for a lot of people.
I never got past that stage.
on the other hand is actually,
I think I look better.
I'm not a huge person,
I'm just a regular looking guy,
just going to lift weights on occasion with my wife,
my wife thinks the same thing about both me and herself
that get that little bit of definition in your muscles attractive
that pays also.
That's good.
I guess that aspect of that takes away the work
with my wife, which is nice,
I love her,
I enjoy being with her
I guess that's one thing,
also, long term benefit of a little bit of tone in your muscles.
that's it,
I do the occasional push up and sit up.
I haven't really brought myself to go to the
the gym, because that's very stressful to me,
real competitive there,
I need to find some place I could go and not feel like there's all these people who are just huge and hulking that are ...
let that bother me,
that's something that comes with time, too.
I'll tell you, the sit ups and push ups are excellent
it's your own,
you're struggling against your own body weight
you can variety by putting your feet higher or lower, by putting your arms further apart or closer together, by doing them real quick or real slow
you can actually get a good wo ,
get chest muscles and the back of your arms quite built up
just doing push ups.
That's a good idea,
I do have my ride,
we have a stationary bicycle and a stair step machine here at the house.
is that right.
I'll do those once in a while just
at eleven thirty when Love Connection's on
and I can't sleep,
I'll get up
and stair step for half an hour
That's funny.
It's, I guess, healthy,
I don't have a regular plan, that's
I need to get started on that.
at twenty two you don't necessarily need a plan as long as you're the exercise otherwise.
When your life becomes sedentary is when you have to make yourself a
what's real funny about plans is that there's a struggle when you add a plan to your life,
something else has to go away
that's the hard decision, is, okay, if I'm going to run in the mornings, trade it off for.
the answer's
Sleep .
sleep, right.
If I'm going to walk at night, what do I trade it off for.
Star Trek
it's always trade offs,
you actually
really think what can go, and what, to replace this thing.
It's, not just exercise, but anything.
very hard.
think you should worry about not having a program yet.
That'll come
some day when I,
I guess if you care, or if gives you a reason to care
which helps .
I hope so.
. I think we covered it.
sounds good.
Nice talking with you, Craig.
you too.
Have a nice day.
You too.
Good day.
what do you think is the biggest problem?
The biggest problem, in this part of town seems to be the attitude and the atmosphere in the schools
that, you can throw money at it,
I don't know,
to me it seems like the schools are reflecting society in a bigger way
because, the general values that we're teaching
kind of conflict with what we expect out of people in school,
values that they're teaching in school or the values they get from home.
the values, more or less at home and the T V, just a general,
learning is not a revered endeavor, really,
it's a lot more,
it's unacceptable,
whereas like in, a person that, stud ,
they put a lot more emphasis on athletics
things like that are a lot more glorified generally in society,
I think that carries over to school
a lot.
I, I think that the biggest problem is, home environment being part of it.
I think too many parents expect, the school to teach, the moral aspects things while we're not going to worry about, teaching you manners or teaching you respect for anyone or anything like that, and then expect them to pick it up at school,
you're not going to do that,
you're going to carry to school, out into the world, what you learned at home,
I think that that part of that showing up now, things because kids I think have probably less respect people other things, than we may have seen in the past,
part of it's family, I think,
part of it's, the living conditions certain people are subjected too,
drugs is a big problem now,
I think that's another root problem.
I wonder if that's a root problem or not,
I think about that a lot,
it's just everybody likes to blame everything on drugs now,
I wonder,
do you get the,
that's kind of side tracked,
I just remember seeing on the news the other night, they had the thing about how Catholic schools are doing so much better
I thought, of course they're doing better, and not so much when I was growing up,
Catholic schools are generally considered a little bit easier than the public schools,
they still had better success rate, simply because they started with a lot better raw material.
everybody that went to a Catholic school education as a priority
like you said
and kind of had a whole conducive atmosphere to it.
I wonder if, not so much that,
I think the socioeconomic mix
you look at the schools like that where you've got a lot of kids more going to a private Catholic school or whatever,
they're not all that way,
some that are
they're not quite the same as the kids that are going to the inner city, public schools.
this is interesting because in my mind I don't have the stereotype of a Catholic school being a suburban kind of environment,
was actually inner city
people were sending,
just because their kids had the ability drive to and get an education, they didn't send him to a public school,
like you said, you have the drug problem and just the general atmosphere where you're pressured not to learn in instance,
in a lot of cases like that, where, if kids are going to a public parochial school like that, because the parents are more interested in them receiving an education. that the parents have some, desire the kid to well,
that may be passed on down to the kid as well,
maybe they pick up on that.
from the other aspect, maybe the, school itself has more emphasis on, trying to do a good job because the classes may be smaller,
they may be able give the resources that's needed do a good job.
to fix the school systems?
that's a tough question
how to fix the school system.
I would try see about getting parents more involved, try come up with more ways to do that. stress the importance of education to the parents and the students, and, classes are,
I think this is happening some around the country in terms of, morals, trying to teach the kinds of things aren't getting taught at home, and respect for other people.
I think that's a big part of it.
if you don't care about property and people, you're not going to care learning, I think.
you're not going to really care about yourself.
That's what I was going to say.
It's the chicken and the egg thing.
I wonder, literally tear apart their own schools
vandalism wise,
you get,
it's been a while since I been in high school.
They're even in grade school when they do that.
I can't remember exactly what goes through their head when they're doing that.
you got to think in a way it's kind of a outward showing of that they don't think they have a chance of doing anything, and take it out on the school.
that's why I say, a tough question what would you do,
because, even trying to instill those values is kind of hard when you're growing up a home which may be, just the pits,
you don't have kind of a good environment to live in,
it's kind of hard to say, you need to take care of other people's stuff as well, anything yourself.
I could see where that would be a problem,
guess because I work quite a bit with lawyers, that I find a lot of things are so specialized that I'm not sure,
look at it more from the civil side of things that juries have any sense the value of, and worth, so that they have real problems when it comes to,
they can find guilt or innocence
then when you quantify things and might also hold criminal trials for how many years is appropriate, that they might leave it to somebody else who, has expertise in that.
I agree, too.
I don't think the jury should be the ones put the down.
I think the judges should,
even a panel lawyers it got to that point. Might be better than just regular civil people.
Not knowing, exactly what things are, murder on up to like tax stuff,
Because I find that,
I've been on a few juries
as a say, tend to be around, civil cases because I've been an expert witness some,
many matters are so complicated that it's so hard to, come up with the fair value, or the fair sentence
one thing that you get if you have some expertise is, the range possible values or terms or, how heinous was the crime.
when I only do something one, two or three times I'm hardly an expert on it,
most juries over a period of five or ten years you might sit on three.
how do you relate as to whether this particular armed robbery was worth five years or twenty five.
most people that do sit on juries,
some people just sit on them once in their lifetime, if they're that lucky sometimes .
Or, the case may be. may not have any idea of the standard punishment would be for it.
may have some different idea,
it might be more important for them to put a sentencing down that was, longer, that the crime.
Or not long enough or, whatever the case may be.
think the judges do have better knowledge of it.
The only thing I worry about sometimes is you get somebody in there has a name, that is the defendant and, sometimes, might have more pull, which does happen.
we can't say it doesn't, because it does happen.
not everybody has the right morals sometimes.
People can be paid off politically
or whatever the case may be
sometimes that's not real fair either, though
one of the others things that gets me the juries is that often in the newspaper, tend to hear two things go on.
One is, you often see in the headlines the big numbers.
many of those get overturned or get reduced in terms of sentences, or get changed
by a judge or an Appeals Court
that never makes press
when, you or I as an individual gets on a jury we tend to have certain mental images of what's what because we see the headlines,
we don't have, a lot of knowledge,
we don't know what is really going on, what is, really the range of sentences or awards that actually, in the end
also what I don't think is fair, either, is when you have rapist, come in,
his attorney gets his reduced because he's gone to a lesser charge, I don't know what, assault or something or,
which doesn't make any sense to me either.
I know it's hard to prove rape and whatnot
the person that was raped or whatever doesn't,
I mean it's embarrassing
and all this other stuff
put on they were the ones that caused it or whatever,
to me, when you do the crime, then you should pay for whatever you did,
you shouldn't be able to go on the lesser charge.
think that's right because all's that's going to do is say, that was a breeze,
I can go out and do it again and,
have the same thing happen.
not right.
that's where, the role of juries restricted
I'm not sure I'd want to change that aspect of it,
one is, it's restricted in the sense that, juries only decide the charges that are actually, brought,
if it's first degree rape, second rape or whatever, they only get to decide on that,
okay this person has been charged with first degree rape,
you can decide guilt or innocence on that.
such like, maybe in murder they get to choose whether it's, premeditated or one or two of the lesser degrees.
The other thing that juries are restricted on at least to me this has been one of the frustrating things own experiences, that you usually don't get to hear all the information.
It's what information is presented
I don't know that juries have a right to know more because in a sense we call those safeguards,
often juries hear only a fraction story when they have to decide guilt or innocence.
to me, make a decision if you don't have all of the evidence in front of, to the case or not,
somebody thinks had, because they've got it there.
are the ones that have all the information.
Don't they?
the truth that's brought out is, as I say, when I've heard about,
the oath is to tell the truth,
the whole truth and nothing but the truth, is that they want,
they don't want, the whole truth.
They only put part of it.
you can say,
because stories look very different when you hear different parts truth.
that's just like that old witness game,
it's a game kids play, too,
somebody did it, just for your train of thought where showed something
they asked,
were, four people,
My name is Nola.
I'm in Plano, Texas.
Hi Nola,
I'm Steve.
I'm in Dallas, Texas.
Not too far away.
that's unusual.
Seems like usually,
I've had some from Plano, too.
I think all mine have been East Coast people so far .
let's see.
Social changes.
what's that mean? .
That sounds like not as recent social changes, too, back to the sixties or fifties, I guess .
Think we can handle that?
I definitely,
there's plenty of things to talk about there.
That's a,
shall I go ahead and push one?
Okay .
You want to go ahead and start? .
I was hoping that you would
Oh .
In social changes is that,
it seems to me that,
That involves
Does that,
a lot of different
Y ,
areas, I think.
Like a lot,
it seems like the rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer, is even more,
true today.
there is a
S ,
a big difference in the, economic, status of, people although I think that has been true, always.
perhaps there's less of the middle range then there was.
It's like people are starting to give up hope
they start out very poor.
Let's see,
that's a bad tangent to get on.
What else has changed between the sixties and the eighties
and the nineties?
I think, situation,
I have three children
we're, home schooling.
education, are things that I think about a lot.
involves social changes a lot.
for instance , I think the schools are having more and more problems because of, things that are happening socially in the world around them and t , because of their parents
things that are being taught in the home are not taught in the home, rather. More not than are. And children being put in day care centers from very early,
I think that a lot of these things that have been happening, such as the day care centers and things, are having a big effect on the social changes.
Because of the way children are being raised, they're not learning the values they need to learn.
don't have the self esteem that they need to have
they don't have solid family life that they need to have to confidently deal with the things in the world.
I think we're seeing a lot of rebellion and things because of that and the things like the things that are happening
It seems, so that,
that is a pretty big change.
It seems, even not just single parent families but with no guidance
it seems like,
some of these even ladies work and have,
a baby and then, after two or three months,
go back to work.
that's very, young for a baby.
That's really sad.
I think that a lot of people,
they think they have to
think that if they really tried, they wouldn't have to.
think that if they didn't and it became more of the standard not to that, I don't know maybe companies would start paying men more so that their wives could stay home. D You
know? And have a more solid, foundation for the kids.
they're going to,
you said, be saving money,
even if they had to pay more now, in the long run it's going to cost society more to
That's right.
force two people to work. Even though
It's already,
it's higher productivity is short term.
It already costs society much more because of it.
trying to do all these programs like Headstart and things like those. You wouldn't have to do that if mothers would stay home with their children and do things with them,
I think, a lot of it is selfishness.
People have become very selfish.
They don't want to stay home with the kids
or something like that.
There are a lot of two parent, situations where the woman goes back to work because that's what she wants to do,
rather than she needs the money
Rather than that,
just she wants the
she has to have the money particularly.
stimulating environment .
maybe there's a small need for money
she does it partly because of the money but partly for herself, too .
It's interesting
home study. Is that what you said?
Home school.
Home school.
it like, a preschool level then or through
grade school or,
have, one going into fourth grade and one starting kindergarten and then a preschooler.
I s ,
And one on the way .
you sound busy .
you're teaching them,
completely ,
I think, it's becoming, more popular then it has been for a while, I think.
Home schooling's always been around
I can see more and more families going to it because of the problems in the schools.
a lot of it is discipline problems.
A lot of it is,
you can tell which kids have been in day care centers.
really obvious to look at them and watch the way they act and things.
That, they've been raised in a day care center.
That's pretty sad because, I don't know, something's got to change with the schools.
That's what it all boils down to in the end, usually anyway.
I think it's going to,
When they're young,
change in the homes before anything
Yeah .
changes anywhere else.
The home is the base,
it's the basic unit.
that's where it all starts
if we don't start making changes in the homes
maybe part of that is educating parents better.
educating, ,
Changing people's expectations.
I know classes in, high schools and things for kids to, give them an idea of what family life is like kind of thing
The AIDS issue a bit of a problem.
I guess the first thing that comes to my mind not having any immediate friends with that problem, the financial end.
how can a country stand to, spend as much or much more than they already are on such a problem,
then that kind of thinking is also tempered with knowledge, or at least rumor, that, we're not spending as much per, let's say, afflicted person on cancer.
there's some,
take breast cancer, for instance.
It seems to be doing much more damage and affecting than AIDS.
yet, more people die of it,
yet the funding has already, exceeded,
AIDS has more money than, breast cancer .
that's interesting, isn't it,
if it's true.
I've always heard these things.
I've never bothered to dig it out and make sure,
I've heard it on more than one documentary that, they were complaining that whoever's sitting up there making these decisions or whatever institutions raise the money and,
it's just one big P R campaign that,
we think that's the world's worst thing
let's give money to AIDS.
yet we've had breast cancer problems for years.
it's just
shows I saw was taking it from the angle that, since it doesn't effect men, it's not going to get funded.
having thought about that for a while,
What did you think about that idea?
I thought, might be possible since there are a lot of men in control of that kind of thing.
then to thinking, number one killer of men seems to be the prostate
there's only one test that just recently got developed, a antibody test for the antigen in the blood
that's fairly recent.
yet men have been dying from prostate cancer for years.
They've not really given it attention either,
it's not really cured,
it's that heavily funded either
that seems to be one of major, problems that men have in the realm of cancer,
I don't know.
guess there's just some strange public opinion as to who they want to give to. be it through different organizations, March of Dimes type, telethons bicycle rides or whatever, how they fund whatever, illness they wish.
It's kind of hard get an even keel on that.
it's really hard to say,
there's, a hundred thousand per year affected by this one
let's give it this amount,
this other one's only a tenth of that,
give it a tenth of that just keep doling it out that way
glad I'm not the one in charge making those decisions.
wish that there could just be money for all these problems because they're all so serious,
it's not so serious, I guess, until it affects your family
all of a sudden it's the most important thing.
would hate to have that responsibility just personally
then, again, do have it as a society to decide which things we need to address .
guess it frightens me to think of so many people AIDS and with cancer
many of those things, if they're not able be insured then the country's going to pay for it one way or the other.
Whether it's through prevention treatment or, helping the people when they are not able to take care of themselves.
It seems like one way or the other we're going to end up paying for it.
That's true.
other thought that I had,
I've had several minutes to think about this after I,
while I was finding people, could think about the topic longer that the person that receives it,
it's kind of unfair advantage,
as it were,
the other thing that I thought of on this is, I wonder if there isn't enough money, in our economy or in our system.
it seems like there's so much that goes to things that don't really do a whole lot of good.
they're kind of nice.
we have such an affluent that I wonder we took a little from here and there and the other if we might wind up with cure for just about everything.
Just change our p ,
Of course, then we wouldn't have any room to put people,
that's ,
just change our priorities
a little bit.
you hear these ridiculous figures for pizza
you hear phenomenal amounts of dollars spent for this, that or the other
you have all the arts are nice and aesthetic,
are they that enhancing masses,
They certainly do well for those who go to the symphony orchestra and all that,
had all that donation and time and labor and effort gone toward something else,
All right, this is easy for me since I,
me too, because I eat out a lot.
I travel,
I do about forty percent of my time on the road.
you eat all your meals out.
I eat a lot of meals out,
I'm also married
my wife is an A one cook,
she enjoys eating out,
I have to share it with her.
actually it's very easy for me, because when I am out,
I eat differently than what I could eat at home or around here.
I look for just about anything,
it's a lot of fun.
I don't have to too much about price considerations because I,
I was going to ask you, could you go to, nice places,
really great.
I like different types of food.
you've eaten?
Let's see,
you've got one Addison,
there's two restaurants that I particularly like that I make sure I go,
that's Houston's.
It's a great place.
There's restaurant Reading, Pennsylvania,
that does not look like a restaurant that you would really want to recommend to a lot of people.
it is
there's a restaurant, in, Panama City.
Of course, not too many people want to rush back to the country, Panama.
I was thinking,
grew up in Panama City.
this is the country
I get it.
this is the country Panama, all right?
I have gotten to quite a few.
I go to Canada and get quite a few restaurants up there.
know the locations,
I know the places,
don't remember the names.
I'd have to go back through some expense reports.
particularly, down in your area, I'm looking for more restaurants.
don't know down there,
Do you like Mexican?
the ones out in Addison.
Do you like Mexican food.
Not particularly
that's one of the few,
one were you going to recommend?
there's so many places here,
lots of good Mexican restaurants here.
in the Addison, about everything that you could want in Dallas is in the Addison area, anyway.
now there's a new Italian place Sfuzi
I have a,
reputation as one of the best restaurants in Dallas,
now there's one in Addison.
writing it down .
it's a great place.
Also a great place that they have Cajun food is Copelands.
I've been there.
I really like Copelands.
I've been there.
one down there is old schoolhouse.
I know,
I don't like that place.
I like the food,
I don't care for the clowning around.
when I went, I thought the food was not good.
I've had,
Magic Time Machine is the place you're thinking of,
That's it,
that's it.
I've had excellent food there.
went, I thought,
the people drove me crazy
first of all
then I just thought the food was over priced for what it was.
all right,
that's great.
Italian is fine.
I make it a habit of always going out to Pasta Oggi's which is right down there in Ad ,
Do you Southwestern?
now there's a good place in Addison too called Blue Mesa Grill
All right.
that's on Belt Line that's close to Houston's, as a matter of fact.
it's great,
I think,
sometimes I've been when I thought, it wasn't as good,
I went there recently,
I thought, this really is good.
a very good place to eat, The Blue Mesa Grill.
this is great.
This is going to give me
A whole new,
some more places to go.
dining experience.
I guess our time's about up,
they haven't beeped us, have they?
they don't always.
I thought sometimes they say,
this is three minutes or whatever.
they've been doing that when, the circuits are busy
other than that, they, leave you go about five minutes,
about it.
I guess that's what they need for their machines to get everything down pat,
It was a pleasure talking to you.
thanks for calling
for helping us out.
You bet,
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
do you have any recycling programs there?
I don't really think we have anything in the works as of yet.
we're a pretty small town
the closest thing we have are bins out in front of Wal Mart
that show, plastics, paper
liter bottles, et cetera, et cetera.
We've progressed a little bit farther than that.
actually they have,
parts of town,
it may have even spread all over the whole town,
they will have these green bins
it's just as standard as regular trash can that they come by and pick up and dump.
just along with a trash can you have green plastic bin,
you put your bottles in it and paper and, all those things
anything that can be recycled you just put in that bin.
I guess you can al ,
a lot of the restaurants
they just have, places green bottles,
and then the brown bottles.
I don't know,
I guess they're, clear bottles.
a lot of people do have those separated.
of course, they have the, dumpsters, igloos.
they have those placed around the city.
actually going to extend it, I think, one of these days maybe to apartment complexes
that would be good.
things of that nature.
I guess when you live in a bigger city really becomes,
it's not anywhere near that.
as far as our little pitch in to it we do recycle our aluminum cans.
that's as far as we go
I take them to a girl at work,
she goes and cashes them in because,
I just
I can do that for her
I don't want the hassle because we have to go to another town to do it.
we don't have anything here in Belton.
a pretty small little town.
I remember my grandparents and I used to always get out there on the road and pick up beer cans.
that's about all that we're doing here.
they're, getting a little bit more on,
they need (( to a lot a )) more community awareness of just what (( is it )) mean to recycle, and what can you recycle and what you can't.
Because, not a lot of people do really know it's for.
they're doing a real good job of, separating it here.
of course, there you have a specific place to put your paper.
they try to get you to go ahead and separate it,
they actually have the door to door pickup.
started out to be, just kind of a test, a pilot project.
it went over so well that they just extended it.
it's almost,
I don't know if it's done by a private company or not.
It may be.
they just go around to each, door and pick it up.
Wow, that's excellent.
That's good.
Let's see.
every year, of course, the phone books
they tell everybody across the city to, put all their phone books in, the, recycle bins.
phone books are pretty,
for a bigger city they're pretty thick.
(( they are )) .
sometimes you might have two or three.
a big savings right there in itself.
ours just goes in the regular trash.
It just,
there's not a whole lot.
there are, some places that will set up for old newspapers and stuff.
usually hasn't caught on yet.
I'm hoping it will soon.
the thing about newspapers and paper,
recycled paper is actually very expensive.
when you see something that's on recycled paper, they've actually gone to a lot of expense to do that.
they're not coming out ahead at all.
really a cost.
I wasn't totally aware of that.
sounds good to the public
there's really a big cost incurred when you do recycle something.
aluminum I don't know.
They may be coming out ahead.
I know,
for a fact that the paper, on that end they're not,
It's just good to recycle
it's, not to their advantage.
it costs less.
I can't think of anything else.
I can't either.
Because at a very, beginning stages,
We look forward to it to get better (( )) .
I hope you all, come along a little farther in the future.
me too.
It was nice talking to you.
You too.
Bye bye.
Supposed to talk about boats.
Have you got a boat ?
I don't,
do you?
I don't.
had one for quite a few years,
not had one the last couple of years.
it's something I've always enjoyed.
I love them .
my children all have been grown for a years
we were using it less and less and less,
we decided to sell it.
I heard, that's the second happiest day of your life , .
What's that?
The day you sell your boat.
I loved having a boat.
I loved having it.
I just heard that.
That's just a joke, I guess.
okay .
First best day is the day you get and the day you get rid of it
yeah .
I'd like to have one.
I just don't know if I'd have the time to use it.
guy just ,
he needs his weekends free,
to be able to use it or a day during the week or something,
I guess for the cost of them you don't really,
it's hard to get,
I don't know,
I felt like I got my money's worth out of mine .
I had bought it used and kept it, , I don't know, ten years and got within, three hundred dollars I'd paid for it and had it all those years,
value real well.
you couldn't complain about that.
Did you go fishing?
it was a , big boat, big ski boat type thing.
I had a sixty horse, Murcruiser in it.
Inboard outboard.
I did fish out of it occasionally,
I'm not too much of a fisherman.
I like to fish.
I did enjoy owning a boat,
would recommend it to anybody.
sailing, I've never been sailing.
Have you been sailing?
I've sailed some.
I just like, fourteen foot Sunfish.
Nothing big.
I've never tried.
I've always thought, I bet that would be more fun.
I'd want to be with a skilled sailor .
they offer classes out at, Ray Hubbard.
always thought I'd like to.
I've never wanted to bad enough to make any effort to do it,
at this stage of the game, I'm not that interested in it anymore.
We go out with friends on the,
we go to the lake just about every weekend down at Mount Vernon
parents' next door neighbors have a big barge
we go out and take them out on their barge.
They're getting kind of old
they like us to take them out on their barge quite often,
that's nice.
we get out on the water occasionally,
it's fun.
do enjoy the lake,
once the children were grown,
we'd go down there
I'd get the boat out on the, Saturday,
we'd go for a ride and enjoy it so much.
It's such a pretty lake down there.
We'd enjoy it so much
I'd say, I'm going to leave the boat out, because, we'll probably do this again tomorrow .
It got to where tomorrow the boat was still sitting there
we never did go out again
I'd have to go load it up the next day.
Where is that?
Mount Vernon.
Cypress Springs,
Cypress Springs.
that's south of here?
it's down at Mount Vernon.
It's probably the prettiest lake in the state of Texas.
it's just a hundred miles from here.
What do you take, I Thirty five?
you go down, yeah, thirty, thirty.
It's east of here.
East of here.
Hundred miles due east of here.
All right.
moved down here a couple years ago,
Did you?
Where did you all move from?
Colorado Springs.
did you?
How are you liking it?
we love it up there .
That's where I grew up .
like it down here pretty good.
I think you'll like it better,
of course it's hard when you don't have any family around.
we got two kids that are
under two
it's kind of tough when my folks call and they want to see them .
it's hard on too,
I know.
They're all, yours
your wife's folks still live in Colorado?
there are supposed to be, some people Colorado Springs for T I.
supposed to be.
that's right.
Do you work at T I?
I don't,
a friend of mine's dad a program manager up there
he just moved down here to Mc ,
what do you,
I guess it's,
he's working in McKinney.
I don't either.
My wife does .
it's a good company.
we're supposed to be talking about boats,
back to boats.
tell me the last time you went for a boat ride.
actually, I went, canoeing down the Brazos this weekend.
my gosh, boating.
That had to have been fun.
It was fun,
it was fun.
what are your hobbies?
actually my hobbies now are T shirt making.
I'm making T shirts and sweat shirts.
In fact that's what I was doing when you called.
that sounds interesting.
What kinds of, sweat shirts and T shirts do you make?
right now I'm making Christmas ones with poinsettias and bears and
all that kind of thing.
Is that silk screening, or,
I'm, have material that I cut out,
there's this stuff called Wonder Under it on
you iron that on the T shirt, you paint around it.
I see.
it's real fun.
I started doing it as just something fun to do,
now I'm selling them and pretty,
how's it going?
Pretty good.
I just started last week,
I sold seven.
I expecting that,
that sounds great.
I guess in my spare time I'll be making T shirts .
somebody has to do it,
That's right,
Give you a little Christmas money, any way.
That's correct.
what are your hobbies?
kind of have hobby fads, I guess.
When I was growing up I into coin collecting,
that dropped off about the time I hit puberty, I guess,
my hobbies in high school went just to the sports.
Now my latest one is classic cars.
I had a sixty six Mustang I was rebuilding.
Almost had it done,
I and sold it.
my gosh.
it was fun.
I really enjoyed it.
how'd you learn to do that
you just,
to fix them up?
You just get a book that tells you how to do it or what?
you just kind of,
all I did is, I bought the car
you can,
I, was just in a supermarket
I seen magazine for,
basically was called MUSTANG MAGAZINE
I bought it
they had, some names, some companies that sold mustang parts,
I just started ordering some parts
basically, did was, I redid the whole interior.
I didn't do too much to the engine, because the engine was pretty good, but whole interior and then part of the exterior,
just kind of do it.
Where'd you get the car?
in South Dakota,
I bought it up there before I moved down here.
kind of rusted out there,
there isn't too much rust on any vehicles down here.
that's true,
that's true.
that sounds neat.
gee I guess there really isn't too much to talk about on hobbies.
Let's see.
about covers mine
T shirt making about covers yours.
let's see,
I've done other hobbies.
I'm a hobby person.
I've always done a lot of craft stuff.
I always have done needlepoint and cross stitch and all that,
I collect dolls,
I have a huge collection of dolls which is still in New Mexico with my parents .
In New Mexico?
from New Mexico.
Let's see,
what else?
I started collecting music boxes.
I guess that's a hobby.
that is.
That's interesting.
How many music boxes do you have?
Probably twenty.
Do they all play different songs
do some of them play the same song?
all play different songs.
that's neat.
What's the most expensive one you bought?
The most expensive.
I don't know.
I've gotten all of them for gifts.
I don't
(( )) bought a few of them.
I usually get them for Christmas gifts when people go, trips or something.
that's interesting.
It used to be tea spoons, was the thing.
That's true .
that's interesting, music boxes.
I have dolls from all over too.
That I started when I was a little girl,
I have a lot of dolls.
(( )) .
People would always bring them when they go to the countries,
I did that when I went to Europe one summer.
I bought a doll everywhere we went ,
Well how was Europe?
(( )) economy.
It was great,
it was quick.
high school,
I was in a tour,
we went all,
establish better rapport with the different countries,
it was called People to People,
we'd stay in people's homes,
we got to also tour big cities,
I really enjoyed it.
Was that in high school
was that a college thing?
in was in high school.
I'd like to go back, because we had,
everything was rushed
I bet.
everything was an hour or two hours at the Louvre, things like that where you need the whole day,
it really,
That's where a camcorder would come in handy.
that's true.
that sounds real neat.
haven't been back to Europe since then, huh?
I always thought I would,
who knows now.
I got married and, maybe some day.
Maybe it's one of those retirement things .
There you go.
does you husband,
what does he think of your, T shirts and,
he likes it all right.
He's been pretty good, because there's T shirt stuff all over the house.
Does he help out much
What kind of car would you like to buy next?
I guess Cadillac.
I guess that's kind of everybody's dream .
why would that be?
I guess it's a General Motors product,
I like General Motors because they're made in the United States,
we've had General Motors for years and have always had real good luck with them.
that's good.
If you had, no financial requirements, if you could buy any car in the entire world, no matter what it cost, what would you buy?
I think I'd still go with the Cadillac.
Do you?
care about a big .
Which type of Cadillac, is your favorite?
I don't know.
I guess the Seville, probably or.
The Seville.
That's a sharp looking car.
That really is.
always has been though.
they have been.
it doesn't have the Coup de Ville or the Sedan de Ville squareness.
It never really has.
It's always had it's own unique look.
I've always liked that.
I liked
where the trunk head would look like belt buckles across the back of it.
I thought, that looks sharp
that looks real sharp.
I think the ones now with all of the, fancy gold lettering
and all, I think they're very pretty.
course a vinyl top, I think those are pretty.
never really, I've never ridden in one recently,
they're supposed to be just real smooth.
Just a nice comfortable ride.
they are,
just always,
look like they're sturdy
they look like they're very sturdy,
you don't have to worry that much about, getting, hurt like you would in a small one.
Now they've got a unique in them now.
you have a front end accident at such a rate of speed, will actually drop out of the car so that inside.
It'll go underneath the car instead.
I didn't know that.
a big safety factor they've got in them now.
I suppose they all have the balloons.
The air bags,
The air bags,
that's great,
that's great,
you say you've always have preferred General Motors products (( )) .
I do.
go for things, built in the United States rather than foreign countries.
Help our economy
What kind of, General Motors cars have you had in the past?
Mostly Oldsmobiles.
Those are real nice riding cars too.
That's what we have now,
of course if I have a choice I'd still have the Cadillac
I've been very satisfied Oldsmobiles.
We've driven them for about probably twenty years.
Has that been the Cutlass or the Sierra?
the Ninety Eight.
The Ninety Eight,
I don't think,
let's see,
the Ninety Eight,
that's got that big V eight engine in it,
I don't know.
The one we have has a six.
Has a little V Six?
it's a very good car.
one minute's problem with it,
twenty three thousand miles on it.
that's great
that's great.
That's always nice to get, reliability in a product. Especially when you're spending, anywhere from fifteen to twenty five thousand dollars a single item.
you just don't want any hassles
with it.
expect it to do job,
I think car manufacturers
that's true.
They just expect you to buy their product,
in me, is how reliable is this car going to be
Price an issue,
it's not the most important issue.
it really isn't, because now you can get five year financing on them
C and
I would go with the General Motors any time.
I've always been a Ford man, myself.
that's all right.
it's American made too
which is good.
ever since I guess was growing up, my dad's always had Fords,
I grew up in South Dakota.
everybody has a truck
my Ford trucks have just,
just never had problems with them.
I honestly think I would die before my truck would,
keel over on me.
those are good products also.
let's see,
My T V down.
I'm sorry.
invasions of privacy.
what most annoys me are all sorts of phone calls trying to sell me things.
sorts of hours calling and (( telling )) me that I want investment advise and I want this service and that service or the other thing.
I hate those canned messages they put on my recorder.
my sense is that something may just have been done about it by congressmen (( ))
just what went into the (( ))
something about the random dialers that just dial phone numbers.
I guess in some cases they just consider pickup phone and not let you use your phone for a while whether you hang up on them or not.
I thought I saw something about it having some kind of provision that people could specify that their phones were not for commercial using
would be prohibited, from calling business (( )) selling you things.
I have through,
I'm sure that's true.
the phone company,
no nine hundred numbers can be dialed from my phone or received.
some of (( )) did too.
government can do that now,
is that right?
And, especially possibly children around.
that be useful protection.
I don't have children around
I just don't like those nine hundred numbers.
I used to deal with,
I've excluded those.
stop you from the, dialing services.
What are dialing services?
Where they, intend to sell you things.
where people call you.
leave again that canned message on the,
those problems has been eliminated
those problems used to be when I used a credit card
they'd want to have my phone number.
I did not like giving it out.
I (( )) gave out my work number
I think I'm not sure if it's by law just,
otherwise I think the practice has basically been eliminated asking for a phone number.
that's the thing I hated too about, Radio Shack.
How did Radio Shack work?
If you go in and buy anything they want your phone number.
I don't think they're going to call me and ask me how it's functioning,
I don't give that out.
I have an unlisted number
I don't,
that's one solution
you nonetheless often people calling you?
Despite the fact that your number is unlisted?
(( you )) (( )) actually have your number
are they just calling a number that happens to be yours?
anything that you buy
get put on preferred list that is purchased.
companies can purchase this list
what that is is people who buy from the mail.
they have a whole list of addresses and list of phone numbers.
(( I'll be thinking in mind the address is )) ,
is there anything you can do about that like
give out a phony phone number?
Not really.
(( some of that )) unfortunately is legal.
they can't stop people from, advertising
what it falls under.
It falls under the guise of advertising.
I don't care for it,
is it a legal, solution for some companies.
the way things are.
I don't know.
I think it's gotten much worse the last,
few years.
Maybe that's just because I've gotten on more lists.
(( they, ))
the telephone is not the only invasion of privacy.
You've got the holy rollers
you've got, all kinds of people knocking on your door and, who want to, either direct you to the right path want to, sell you, paper routes, whatever,
Sell you magazines.
it's not just the telephone.
I guess whatever is,
I just don't give,
For N I S T, the National Institute of Standards and Technology.
it's right up your alley, then.
I suppose so.
Let me push the button.
All right.
I guess I'm supposed to be all for switching to the metric system,
I sense that it's not going to happen anytime soon.
I don't think it's going to happen either,
I wish it were
bachelor's in mechanical engineering.
I'm at grad school now in acoustics
all we do is metric stuff.
You're now in what?
everything's metric
you go to read some order book or something
it's all confusing
I don't understand as much,
I think we should get one adopted permanently.
I guess that is the policy,
it's been the policy for a long time
nothing ever happens.
I suppose happen slowly simply by having it taught in the schools more to the extent that that's happening, having a new generation come up that's more used to it.
a lot of industry out there is doing metric stuff because they have to.
They have to for international trade.
I easier to switch back and forth than it used to be, because of computers coming into everything.
I don't think switching back and forth is that big a deal.
I think people need to understand more what a meter is, instead of how many feet in a meter or something. Just get used to using all the terms.
someone says a kilogram,
no one knows what that is.
Everyone conversion of that before kind of recognizing it as, as a concept to hold in mind.
I don't see that, it can change it very quickly.
we're not the kind of society that something can be posed upon, by government will.
no one seems to be adopting it.
Metric system, it at all seems like.
the public is just very conservative that way in refusing to change measurement systems, money, dollar, coins, anything like that.
Yeah .
obviously makes no sense that we're practically alone in the world using the old system.
pretty tough when you get everything confused, though.
I think two systems is worse than one, though .
I know, we do a lot of problems and things
they're half english and half metric
make more mistakes doing all the conversions than you would doing the problems.
(( )) just get one.
I prefer metric,
even if it's english, they should just have one.
unfortunate , I think people like you are relatively rare who are coming up against this problem every day.
Yeah ,
I think so.
average guy jogging down the highway wants to know how many miles it is to his destination.
there are things you could do.
we have signs up on the N I S T campus here, speed limit twenty five miles per hour, forty kilometers per hour.
that hasn't been adopted very widely.
they have some of those in Ohio.
There's this one sign's kind of funny.
It says, metric signs next hundred miles.
no one go a step further to remove the english signs.
that would force everybody to use it. Or to quit selling tape measures in inches.
you have highway signs saying speed limit, eighty, eighty five, whatever would be the appropriate number.
I guess a hundred is sixty two.
Hundred car is going sixty two,
it would be more ninety I guess,
car is going fifty five.
you suddenly even worse problem with speeding than we do now.
you have a bunch of people trying to do ninety .
do you know, where you are,
do the schools emphasize the metric system?
in the engineering they all do pretty much.
down, like, in the elementary schools.
in the elementary schools.
I don't know.
I wouldn't think so.
I remember
I think,
a ways back we did like conversions,
we never actually went out and measured anything or did anything on one system.
I think my children learned the metric system,
it doesn't emphasized over the other.
they learn how many centimeters are in an inch
that's about it.
we're supposed to talk about vacations.
what kind of vacations do you like?
I haven't been to many places,
I have a opportunity to go to, Paris, France, my friend in April.
family, lives there,
she's only been there once.
Her grandmother lives there
that's great.
probably the most exciting place I'll ever get to go.
Have you ever been to, New Mexico?
no, actually.
Why, have you?
I was curious.
I was just wondering what it was like.
okay .
I have been to Europe once and to Haiti and,
Where is that?
in the Caribbean
it's the western half of an island,
with the eastern half that's the Dominican Republic.
I was down there with a program from the college that I went to where we would just spend three months in a foreign country, most of them third world countries.
And study the language and then do a little service project.
that turned out to be a really good experience for me.
what did you do when you were in Europe?
I went there when I was in high school, actually
I mostly went to Germany and visited some friends of my family and, hung out with them, worked a bit on one of their farms and also went to a youth camp.
What did you do on the farm?
not that much .
Are you just kind of sight, just kind of,
I wasn't a great asset to them or anything .
I, drove a tractor, helped them weed beets and that sort of thing.
I went to a youth camp that included working at an old people's home
that was pretty interesting.
while I was there I visited my aunt and uncle who were, staying for their vacation in France in Nantes, which is on the west coast, right across from England.
where in France are you,
how long do you plan to be going for?
two weeks.
Last time she stayed two months,
we're only going to stay two weeks.
We're going to take a cooking class there,
that might be fun.
A what?
Cooking class,
French cooking.
what else are you planning to do, if anything?
go to museums and,
Do you go to museums in Europe?
actually, no,
I don't think I went to any of them.
the closest thing I did was go to some restored castles and stuff.
is some on that west coast of France
I went to a vineyard or two in Germany.
that's neat.
that was nice.
what about,
have you ever been to Hawaii?
I haven't.
Have you?
Okay .
I'm wanting to go there.
Where have you gone first?
that's anywhere.
All right,
short term, I don't think anything's going to be done about it
or probably should be done about it.
are you saying you don't think anything should be done in the short term?
the short term, the recession is top attention.
think that you're absolutely right there.
The other thing is, is that we've got all these bank defaults going on, savings and loan defaults,
that effectively adds to whether it's officially on the books or not.
that's got to be paid.
this creates a pretty serious problem that's going to continue to be with us for a while to come.
I'm not really, sure that I even understand why the administration is proposing, for instance, tax reductions, because it seems to me that if they're talking about reducing, the tax that needs to be paid, or the tax that's currently being paid, then possibly, help with deficit picture.
It can only hurt the deficit picture.
severity of the deficit picture already limits the options available or limits the degree of tax cutting you can do without, bringing serious problems for the longer term.
that's the current predicament.
it like a kind of a Catch Twenty two.
my understanding is supposedly they're trying to do by reducing taxes is to kind of jump start the economy, the idea being that if people have to pay less money in taxes, they'll have more money to spend,
if they have more money to spend, then that will be a spur to productivity, particularly commercial productivity, which in turn will generate revenue.
seems it's sort of an unending spiral,
not sure that there's any real genuine truth to idea that decreasing taxes, particularly the kinds that are being recommended bye bye the Bush administration and things like capital gains taxes and so forth is going to, result in substantial amounts of money, for consumers to spend.
I'm not sure how I feel about paying on that tax cuts are worth at this point.
It's probably a judgment of how bad the recession is.
would seem to me that there are other things that the administration could do.
first of all you look to the Fed to fight the recession
as indeed it has, with interest rates.
I think that's been a positive development.
I think what that's done is it's help keep inflation from,
at the moment we're doing very well on inflation.
That's the sort of upside to the deficit.
It's a sort of a piece of luck.
That's the upside to the recession.
I don't know,
what kind of things do you think can be done in the long term?
(( )) can be done or will be done are two different things.
at various places to look cutting the budget, first of all I consider more defense cuts than are already planned
depending on the world situation.
there are various other areas such farm subsidies that ought to be slashed.
a lot of entitlement programs, like education aid, I think, they should put
the Reagan administration took all such entitlements to the poor
but left them for the middle class,
in the longer term, we'd do well, I think reductions there.
Also somewhat (( )) is to collect owed to the government from various loan programs that people have borrowed.
I agree with you certainly in the second situation,
I think certain entitlements inclined to agree with you, too.
Education happens to be one place where I think that we would foolish to
A lot of education aid has gone to so called trade schools
which are sort of not colleges
schools that teach you trades, beautician
what you're saying.
often exists only because of the federal programs that they can take people and tell them they can get loans for their full tuition, and the school gets paid off immediately,
they don't provide very much education.
the people default
on the loans.
I would have to agree with you if there are circumstances like that, around,
I can't confess to having any substantial knowledge of that sort of thing,
taking what you're saying at face value, then I would have to agree with completely.
what kind of
foods would you have?
I like to cook,
I do too .
I don't like getting too awfully fancy about it, just
because, it's too much pressure.
if I have people over for dinner, I like it to be
you can't enjoy it.
nice and relaxed.
I don't like when they arrive, for me to be completely worn out.
I like doing things like making lasagna just because I can have it ready and baking
in the oven,
everybody just says how wonderful it is,
it's like, yes,
That's one of those things I got famous for in college.
People would come and say come over and make lasagna for me .
huh .
It's like, I can't really give you a recipe,
you'd just do it.
I can
(( )) .
I can just do it .
I like doing that kind of stuff.
in fact that's what we had for a Christmas party last week.
We just had a bunch of people over
lasagna and garlic bread and, yummy.
Boy I like that.
I do too, in fact .
I'm planning a,
naturally this is appropriate because I'm planning dinner for people tomorrow night and
then the next night.
Tuesday night there'll be eight people here altogether.
actually one thing we have done quite a bit through the holidays, just because it's real easy, is just baked potato dinners.
have, three or four couples come over,
I'll do the potatoes and butter and cheese and stuff and have everybody else just bring a couple of toppings, whatever they like
it turns out great, because
that's fun.
you've got hot sauce and taco meat and barbecue and, bacon and all that good stuff.
plus it's real easy on the hostess, because you can just have the potatoes ready, and just have a salad with it,
you got a great dinner.
that's a good idea.
real easy,
I like doing that part.
I'm in favor of very little clean up, very
little planning
because we've got three or four couples that we get together with to play games,
we invariably end up at my house since I've got two kids.
it's fine, because then I can just say, Okay fine,
you bring this,
you bring this,
you bring this,
we're done.
it's pretty cool.
that's good.
one of my favorites if I don't want to have other people bring stuff, I just want to treat them is
to make chicken and rice.
It's very easy to.
You don't like it?
I love it .
you do,
I have a really easy recipe for that, where you just brown the chicken
you put rice in the bottom of the pan,
you pour bouillon or chicken broth over it
you put the chicken in, then pour the, broth over
you can put mushrooms in if you want,
you just.
Over the uncooked rice?
over uncooked rice
you can either microwave it
or do it in the oven,
it just.
how neat.
It fluffs up,
it's really moist.
I've done it where cook the rice and then take a can of cream of mushroom soup or cream of chicken soup, and put a little bit of white wine in it.
every once in a while, white grapes
I'll put in there,
that's just because I'm not a real big wine person
I like it,
adds something to the chicken.
just bake it,
it makes a wonderful sauce over the rice.
I'll keep that one in mind.
Yeah .
one of the first things I made for my husband, because I was
I could actually find something I could cook real easy that would be elegant
kind of .
you can get away with it
even having a semi nice dinner,
you know semi (( )) .
then, I hadn't thought about doing it with uncooked rice.
just, in a thirteen by nine pan.
You put in,
let's see, what was it, three quarters of cup of rice
It depends on,
you can really vary it.
you have to put the water in proportionally.
I can't remember.
I think it was three quarters cup rice to two cups water, two cups, broth.
use that
for when I cook pasta or something, I'll put a little bit of bouillon in there just to
(( )) flavor.
give it a little extra flavor.
that would be good.
How long do you have to bake it?
let's see.
I think it was an hour.
I've done it in the microwave so often lately because, really easy.
microwave too, a lot .
I think it's about an hour.
How long would it be
maybe it's only half hour.
how long would it be in the microwave?
you just,
until the rice looks fluffy, and
and not overdone.
before it gets overdone.
Do you just brown the chicken to get it colored
do you go ahead and let it cook through?
I'd let it cook just a little bit
just so that the cooking goes a little faster.
this is a beneficial call.
I like this .
I liked your idea too, there.
that one's an easy one.
It's like, just put in,
a friend of mine makes it where she goes ahead and seasons up soup and the wine
put in garlic and onion powder
or chopped onions if you want to do that, What ever, however much effort you feel like putting into it.
makes a great,
I've got a two year old and a four year old
they love it.
my daughter calls it her gravy
she thinks it's wonderful,
my, good, you're a picky eater, if I can get you to,
did you watch the Bulls this morning?
You know what,
I watched a little bit the Bulls game
I, had to leave.
in fact think the Bulls were ahead left.
Who won the game?
They won in a squeaker.
They won by
Is that right?
they won by two points.
they were behind as they headed into each quarter
they came back in the second half
at the end, I think they looked like they were closing it out
Detroit kept coming back
Isaiah missed a three point attempt,
at the end
I think the Bulls won by two.
Wow, best record now? *
I think they do, as a matter of fact.
One of the, commentators said that they expected that the Bulls would, if they continued at their current pace, set an N B A record for seventy wins in a season.
they looked real good
I think relieving some of the pressure off
Michael Jordan really helped them out.
to rely on him to score thirty or forty points at every
at every game
they're balancing their attack
I think they look like, they'll repeat, although, here in the Bay Area people are real impressed with what Don Nelson's done with the Warriors. *
I know,
Dallas game.
I saw second half of the game last night
they were impressive.
They look good.
Billy Owens looks like he was,
that was a good move for the Warriors to trade for him.
kept up with what was going on the,
they traded away, Mitch Richmond,
is it Tim Hardaway.
One of the two, who, along with, Chris Mullen was,
though three were three of the best in the N B A,
they made a heck of a threesome
they traded either Richmond or Hardaway to Sacramento for Billy Owens
Good move.
he's really worked out well.
Warriors have got a team,
I think that will be real interesting to see what they can do.
They're ahead,
the Lakers are down, I guess in fourth, position in the west
I don't know,
in the east, I don't know,
is it Boston in, first place?
I think Boston's in first.
haven't kept up with any of the other, teams.
I'm so depressed with the Dallas Mavericks,
they've had a hard time.
They said
they've lost a lot of squeakers.
just this whole year has been just disastrous for them
think they're going for an all time record of how many in a row they can, pull out.
It's unbelievable.
How do people in Texas deal with Dallas, Houston and San Antonio.
Do you, for example, like San
Antonio in Dallas?
the Dallas area here, pulls for Dallas.
San Antonio pulls for San Antonio,
Houston pulls the Rockets.
there isn't much crossover,
y ,
There really,
not a whole lot.
you find them pretty loyal, the local teams.
like, there in the Bay area, you don't find a whole lot Sacramento fans.
it's true,
Antonio isn't that close to you, are they?
Really isn't,
it's about the distance from here Antonio as it is
Is it?
from there to Sacramento.
it's not something you'd drive,
not really a local,
I was thinking maybe David Robinson made a bit of a difference with kids and that sort of thing.
he does a lot of local stuff there in San Antonio
have got a great club.
They've done a good job.
of course, drafting a franchise like him certainly,
Yeah .
that always makes a big difference.
works now in basketball.
Magic was a franchise for the Lakers
and, Bird Celtics
I used to think player really doesn't make a club,
it really does,
it (( )) ,
You get somebody like Magic
you can see the decline in that team.
Once he left, just not the same, it's not the same team.
There's not the leadership there that they used to rely on him for.
I think you're right
I think Isaiah Thomas would fit in Detroit
I think those things do make a difference
there are marquee players.
I think
I think Jordan Bulls have to be, considered the likely favorites.
I don't know who would meet them in the west.
I don't know how good Portland will turn out to be by the end of the year.
They were so disap ,
Who won that Portland game?
I watched only a few minutes of it
I wasn't paying attention.
I don't know,
and Portland have both been very good clubs
I guess we're, forced a lot about air pollution.
I hear that the major automobile manufacturers are looking at nonpolluting cars
low polluting fuels are being experimented with Ethanol and other types of fuels.
one of the things they asked me to ask you was where you thought the major source was coming from?
Or sources.
that the major sources are cars and factories.
That's what,
I would think.
I don't know for sure.
I just know that, acid rain apparently is a big problem in Canada from,
comes over the border from us.
I think the automobile definitely is an area and industry that burns,
I don't know about chemical pollution.
I'm not real into that as far as how it affects the air.
I know we have a lot of chemical, the indoor type pollution.
They have offices that are too well insulated.
They found people are getting sick,
I don't know if that affects outside.
me that's what they were asking about was outside
think of would be cars and factories.
the smokestacks or the exhaust pipes.
I guess there's been a lot of pressure to, do away with the C F C's in these spray bottles which,
has been a real problem.
destroying the ozone, isn't it?
(( Again )) hear
there's this big debate apparently about whether or not
at last I heard it was, discovered that the hole was bigger than they thought,
that's wh ,
It's kind of scary.
it is scary
I think it will, continue to force us to clean up our act,
literally and figuratively.
We've got to learn to manage without destroying the environment.
I think something too that you probably see in older states, all do it down here once in a while we will have a cold spell is where people will use their fireplaces.
I'm wondering whether it's going to get to the point where you can't,
I think it will.
do that.
In Los Angeles they're apparently going to,
they've passed laws that, for habit, for example, people using, barbecues *
gasoline lawn mowers,
it's really bad in places like Los Angeles,
it's gotten bad in Denver
it's not too bad around here although you see it, more and more in the sky.
people in this country are really wedded to their, cars,
our economy seems to,
this I think is one of the big problems,
In this area too since, in Texas we're so spread out,
we have to drive so far,
I know in Colorado I have witnessed that where stacks up Rockies starts,
we're even getting it here.
We can Fort Worth or Dallas
you can tell it in the mornings too.
My husband likes to go out and jog
there's just a brown fog here
we don't even have any mountains that are,
holding it in.
they also said that more dense the population and the more we crowd together, the worse it gets.
that makes a lot of sense.
hadn't thought about it that way
You don't have to have mountains that are stopping it.
they more and more high rise buildings
we can comment
we didn't see this a few years ago.
I think,
It was pretty clear here.
I think more and more it's becoming apparent to people that the earth, which includes all the people on it and everything that's going on it, organism of sorts,
and that there is whole set of organic relationships that if we start to destroy one part of it, it's going to tell us about it,
we're going to feel it,
I think it's going to be real interesting and particularly in light of what is obviously going to be a big structural change in the economy,
in this country, whether people are willing to get out of their cars,
in this country, solution people seem to think work are politically unacceptable.
For example,
taxing people heavily for using their cars.
I have a little sports car that I enjoy using
I know just like anybody else how much fun it is to drive
I think, we're going to have to make some fundamental changes
not sure how long it's going to take or what it's going to take because they keep saying that the economy is going to depend on how many cars and,
houses we sell.
it's a shame too when you do see somebody driving a big car, just one person in that.
It's a lot of waste
Okay, Eric.
are you married
do you have a family?
yes I am to, both questions.
do you and your wife have a budget plan for your finances.
we do.
basically there's expenses that are fixed during the month
the ones that come month
we, enter those a spread sheet
whatever is left, after that we,
we sit down and agree on kind of sort of range we are going to
generally going to shoot for.
I see. ,
what do you do?
that's basically what we do.
about three months or so, we re evaluate our budget
we sit down and just write from the largest bills down to the smallest
we divvy them up between our four pay checks.
I work part time at night
Wow .
full times days
we have four checks,
that works out nice because we get paid every week
C and
so that does help,
that helps a lot.
we don't have a lot for extra spending,
it's pretty well ear marked.
All allocated out. .
Yeah .
Every penny is ear marked
have found that works the best
if we can just divide
In fact, we found it easier to divide the major bills up, cut the house payment in half and cut the loan payment in half,
divide those up between all,
All the checks,
we are not taking a huge sum of one
the next pay check we're real short
we found that,
it's definitely helped, get a handle on kind of the unnecessary expenses.
That's true.
spending, money for things that,
we kind of tended to eat out a bit more
than we should have,
it was easy to, let things get out of hand.
We to be really helpful.
We have gotten some of our loans paid off really
because of this and stuff like that
it helps you to focus where your money goes
I am sure you felt same frustration before you got on a budget,
you're wondering when you put down all the money that you do bring in
you're saying, my word where did all that money
That's a lot of money,
Where does it go?
also we have found that if we write down,
we did this.
We are not real consistent with this,
we did it for about a month
we wrote down everything that we bought every pay check
we could see where every penny went
it was really interesting to see just what you do spend
like I say we haven't been real consistent with it.
we should cause it does help.
thing we've found that helps is, we tend to fudge on the budget a little bit
huh .
it's just to, get up the money in advance and put it in, so long as it wasn't unreasonably high, but for things like food expenses
or whatever. Just put it in ,
in an envelope or whatever
that way it kind of forced us to, stick to that amount. *
just stick to that,
That is,
And then
if the entertainment amount was gone
for the month say, it's gone .
that sounds like a really good idea.
it really helpful.
have you developed a savings plan or I R A s or anything like that yet?
our initial goal was just to for car payments and
credit card
credit card debt and all of that.
We are just at a point we could start thinking about it
that's good.
That's a good feeling .
I ,
My husband just graduated from the university, a year ago
A student.
finally we are getting to that point too.
are you still going to school
I am actually mas ,
I guess we're talking about exercise,
first of all to ask you old you are?
I am twenty seven.
Twenty seven,
I am quite a bit older than you are .
I think exercise is extremely important
do exercise on a regular basis.
You do?
What type of exercise do you do?
I do, jazzercise
you do.
which is an aerobic, program that,
are you familiar with it?
It's, a national company
we have a jazzercise center here in Plano that has classes all day long
you can,
Are they different from aerobics
is it the same thing?
an aerobic routine.
warm up
you have thirty minutes of aerobic activity starting, slowly and then working up to, a high heart rate
you gradually go down again.
you do that every day
I only do it probably two or three times a week.
The minimum they want you to do is three times a week.
this is a club
do you belong to a group?
it's really a
it's called a center
you buy as many classes as you want to at a time
you just go in whenever you can.
I usually choose to go at nine thirty in the morning or a nine fifteen class or a ten thirty class in the mornings.
Do you go with friends
do you go alone?
I go by myself
that's one of the frustrating things cause I can find very few people to go with me
most of my friends that are my age don't exercise
they might play tennis
since I am not a tennis player, I don't get that,
I am in my late forties
there aren't many people, that want to do that.
Oh .
Most of the people that are in the classes are young mothers. children between the ages,
young mothers or,
Young mothers.
young women,
with small children
are the ones that I find.
what do you do?
I really don't have a routine.
I like playing basketball.
We just bought a new home with a basketball hoop
that's what I do every day.
Do you play every day?
pretty much.
When my wife let's me.
who do you play with?
Do you have friends that play with you
I just shoot around by myself.
that's about it.
I use to play soccer a lot in high school,
when I graduated I haven't done much.
I don't have a problem.
I know I have to do more aerobics,
I don't have a problem with weight.
I could eat all day and not gain an ounce .
really good
I think that keeps people from exercising.
I don't have a problem with weight either,
I think I don't have a problem because I exercise.
You do exercise.
people are always saying to me, how do you stay thin
it's because I exercise
You do it ,
I also watch what I eat.
you'll come,
being twenty seven, you don't really have to worry about your heart rate and that yet
as you get older you will.
everyone's told me my waist line is going to expand one of these days,
I don't know .
it might not .
everybody's been telling me that too
so far it hasn't happened,
just feel like, you have to constantly weigh yourself
and just keep an eye on it and cut back if it starts to get too high.
I guess I enjoy sports a lot
that's why I've kept active in that way.
you don't play any other sports but basketball?
too bad it's not really heavy as far as recreation or hobby,
I do that.
do you ski?
Being in Utah, I was wondering if you ski.
I use to,
it got too expensive,
did it really?
I know that skiing in Utah suppose to be great.
a lot of people do that
never find the time.
I had rather do other things.
I have never skied before,
I have friends that go to Utah all the time
they think it's really
they come up here.
they ski.
I guess there's a place where you can ski,
is it Tahoe? Where you ski from,
that's Nevada to California
That's in Nevada.
I guess.
I am thinking about where you can ski over the state line.
There's Snow Bird or Alta.
it's like, Heavenly.
Is that it?
I think it's called Heavenly.
I've never heard of that one.
You've never heard of that?
maybe it isn't in Utah.
they said they've skied Heavenly
it sounded like, that they skied really well, when they are actually talking about a place.
It's kind of funny.
Do they exercise much for skiing?
I know when I went, you can get sore easily
You can get really sore.
I know you,
I've talked to people,
most of these people ski enough so that they don't get sore.
(( )) is one or two timer a year if I do go on them
I am really sore after.
is it your quadriceps that are the worst?
In your legs and,
My legs really, really ache.
I am using muscles that I have never used before.
it's strange that you can do, like I did aerobics, all the time
I went horseback riding
still I was so sore
I couldn't get over,
to tell you the truth, I think, jury selection is a, prime, discussion topic in terms of possible improvements on, finding of, guilt.
I certainly can't argue with that.
Definitely does need some improvements.
the lawyers can throw people out for no reason whatsoever just because they want to.
I think there's a limit on that.
I think it's,
peremptory challenges are limited to, I don't know how many,
you can,
Four or five,
I can't remember which.
I was on a jury trial last year
only I got kicked out as, the last selection that the, defense got.
it seems to me I'm always challenged peremptorily also when I go to these things.
I think I have a severe demeanor or something.
typically, everyone gets involved in, the jury process
I suppose an elitist might say, you really want someone who is well educated to be able winnow the facts prejudice.
it still has to be a group of your peers.
if it's your peers and you're not educated
if you're a
nincompoop on trial, have to have
You want
nincompoops to,
you want a nincompoop jury because they'll sympathize with you a bit
as well as hopefully being honest people and do their best to comply with the facts as they were presented to them.
that's why the defense is there picking through them, whereas at the same time, prosecutor sitting there picking through them because he wants somebody who will give him, a guilty verdict if the facts warrant.
I think the jury selection process is pretty neat,
I don't think that the jury ought to be the ones picking the punishment
I think that should be left up to people who have some knowledge in the subject and more knowledge than a jury would have.
you're talking about, the person's already been found guilty, right
many times I've seen on trials they have on T V, the jury will make a recommendation as to leniency or as to the death penalty or whatever,
I think that it should be up to the judge and the, lawyers to make the decision as to what the actual penalty will be.
Maybe just the judge because they're the people who know what the system is
and what it's all about
and believe in the system.
I think that would provide a more fair sentencing procedure.
I suppose you may be right on that.
As opposed to an emotional sentencing procedure.
Matter of fact, I've heard that,
Also, may be a more consistent sentencing procedure.
I've heard that some of the information, is prevented from reaching the jury, like, mitigating circumstances preceding, criminal record or things of this nature that,
preceding criminal record, according to the judicial process has nothing to do with the current crime.
when it comes to, sentencing for punishment, of course, if the person's never done anything bad before, according to the judicial system, then they're going to lean towards a slightly more lenient side,
the jury's supposed to be notified of criminal records when it comes to sentencing by jury.
is it?
I didn't realize that.
At least in California, they're supposed to be.
Not during the trial,
during the trial as to whether they're guilty or not has nothing to do with their background.
when it comes to what kind of sentence you're going to lay down, I think they should.
know that they always have because I never sat all the way through a jury trial.
They get too boring.
saying is this, if there is the second offense, then you execute them.
if it's a second offense, the punishment should certainly be more severe than a first offense, because obviously, the rehabilitation process did not work the first time.
you got to give them either more time in the system or a different process that will hopefully work better.
When it comes down to things like alternative sentencing, I'm all for that for, small crimes, infractions and misdemeanors or parking tickets or traffic tickets that have gone to warrant,
you give them the option of working off their time doing civil service sort of things.
What about, white collar crimes like, theft of trade secrets.
I think those ought to be punished a whole lot worse than they are.
Like what?
say, embezzlement, right.
Ri ,
You get a guy down the street who comes up, carrying a kni ,
with regard jury trials. I really feel as though, whatever system has used historically, in particular jurisdiction, is really only kinds of things that you can use. Because jurisprudence is, based on accumulated of law.
you have a situation where you change that body of law, then all of sudden they could start going back and digging up all these cases would be handled differently were
(( )) .
they judged by today's standards.
really don't think can really do much of anything to change it.
What do you think? .
don't think so.
Possibly in the jury selection would be the only,
just for example, what we're seeing in California I guess.
It makes you wonder, had the jury been a different group of people what would have happened with that outcome.
problems that has come from this decision that that jury came to after all of us witnessed what we did with the video tape beating. just makes you wonder I guess whether or not they, *
maybe they used a little bit too much force with stuff like that
then, the defense lawyer addressed each and every one of those blows apparently
bad )) .
other two guys sat in the car
they didn't get beat up.
(( It )) ,
Rodney got beat up because he pur , he involved himself in some behavior.
just like the burning and looting
is self destruct.
says this is the nineties
they're going to rebuild
it'll be even better.
Hey, what do you think,
black guy with capital is going to come in and invest in that area?
That's right.
With everybody with that mind set. They, they're
They're only going to suffer.
they're going to, that whole area is going to be turned into residential ghetto,
you might even be able use it a bombing test site,
only going to suffer.
defeated themselves their looting and violence.
I understand why they were upset by the verdict just because even those of us that aren't black or, don't live there or whatever, we all saw the same thing tape
is saying this is going to be a new era
we're going to reexamine this thing.
Hey, person is going to take a look at that and say, suspicions confirmed.
They're a bunch of animals,
How can you really deal with an environment where you're going to lose everything.
Forty deaths.
there are forty people
I know.
that are dead as a result of that.
it's really ridiculous.
I'm just trying to determine, Rodney the hell beat out of him against, forty deaths.
Against forty other people being,
there's no other,
I'm not what the circumstances surrounding the deaths.
I'm very upset that the news media has not identified those deaths
Those deaths.
pursued it, because I'm interested in the circumstances surrounding this thing.
Is it a looter that got shot by a store owner?
no tears.
Or just or somebody got actually beat to death or what.
I, I,
I suspect a number of them.
see film of people being pulled out of a car and shot, the street.
(( )) beaten.
my reaction is I would have run over fifty people rather than stop.
would have been just nothing but carnage after
if I'd been at the wheel.
No one
would have stopped me.
exactly how I feel too.
stopped my car for had I seen them coming.
I was just wondering since you're back east, and a little closer to bigger cities than we are in Idaho here.
I'm inside the beltway.
how capital gang, they always say inside the beltway, they think thus
I say wait a minute,
I'm inside the beltway
I don't think like that.
I'm a government employee.
In what, section of the government do you work?
I'm with the F B I.
Oh .
that's interesting .
the reason I'm doing this whole thing is because Rick,
whose another government employee wanted of my speech,
that were done a year ago
he wanted another collection a year later.
this is my seventh call.
A year ago I did eleven calls.
I see .
that's why I'm religiously getting on the phone because situation here in that if I don't participate,
around here we have a program where, we separate the bottles and the cans and the plastic stuff from the newspapers.
we keep the newspapers
they're collected twice a month and the trash this bottled stuff that is put little blue bin that's picked up and sorted out into a truck.
they about three passes at this collection. One for
the regular trash, one for the, the bottles and cans and one for the newspapers.
I gather you do not separate, the bottles and cans.
do that on the truck.
They separate them dump them.
one guy comes around with his truck dumps it all in there.
I think running out of, (( )) .
The sanitary landfill, I think, is, running out.
Of course, you being from New Mexico, you've probably been to Washington. Especially if you're, your present location.
You must have come to Washington at least once.
I know.
Not only have I come to Washington but, I find it very amusing that, the thing that was just instituted here is very similar.
That is we also have blue bins.
We also separate newspapers from all of the other stuff which goes into the bin and gets separated in the truck and, landfill space is, in deed, the driving factor here.
in fact, despite all of our open space out here, landfill space is still, very hard to come by.
My, you've got lot of nothing out there.
A ,
they got,
got to be a crevice between two mountains that nobody gives a doggone about that use for landfill. (( )) .
if somebody can make a regulation about it, they will.
what, what unique things you think, that you can do about it in Los Alamos?
than nuking it. *
other than nuking it.
in fact, Los Alamos, has, done a fair amount of research, in recycling things in general.
involves, for instance, creating biological organisms which can remove heavy elements like selenium, and barium and, other things from, waste material in general. purify the waste of specific, nasty elements.
that's pretty, upscale, trash, situation.
I don't think anybody around here would understand all the,
all those exotic techniques, getting
rid of the heavy metals.
the thing that just was in the local news bulletin was, somebody made some special, polymers that have the ability to, make certain actinide elements adhere to them.
they've, looked at, plutonium and uranium and, some other similar things to
try to remove those from radio active waste
again, this is driven by all of the documentation and, E S and H, considerations that, people are, worrying about, I think, much more than they should.
We ,
I've been involved in recycling for long before it became fashionable.
Back when I was in graduate school, I did all of the recycling of the, paper from the computer center
in fact I think I was the first person in our department to have my thesis published on
that's certainly, getting into the swim of things.
think should go heart of the matter though and say, okay guy,
everybody gets, five pounds of garbage that they can throw away,
more than that every week, you've got to pay by the pound.
I think that's a wonderful idea.
I think they'd be very careful about how they bought stuff.
The only alternative I would see is, if you did it by volume rather than by weight
it would, speak more directly to the space needs and the landfill
it would
also cause people to compact their garbage more.
limiting the volume is probably a little bit closer to the real problem than limiting the weight.
of course, big trucks probably are far more efficient in packing than any kind of little household compactor.
my exercise program consists of,
a opportunity to stay alive really.
Instead of, the, the, trying to exist on
what I like to do is I like to stretch out
I like to run, m ,
to run, get my heartbeat up.
I like to run and a half miles.
I like to work out Bailey Life machines up here Holiday Spa.
think that,
I've had a regiment now for about, ten, fifteen years doing that
kind of think a lot of work
I think a lot of work
I think amount of effort that's required stay healthy,
I have a sedentary job
unless you do something like that, going to get sick.
need to get,
pretty bad about that.
I'm lazy.
I should, I know
I'm going to try and do that this summer.
I never have time.
always put it off.
By the time I get back from classes it's late at night
I don't feel like going back over to the gym and running on the track or whatever.
getting a gut here.
I got to get back into shape.
started having trouble with my knee.
I've got,
I figured it'll go away.
I've had to
I've gained fifteen pounds.
it's, e ,
I need to get back into swimming, instead of running.
I should be able to swim.
I'm such a terrible swimmer
I really feel dedicate about and fifteen minutes this effort.
if it gets longer than that i , it, I start not doing anything.
I got a real problem in that regard.
you obviously not an exercise buff or else you'd be out there doing it.
I do it, I guess,
I'm going to do it, because I want to get in shape.
something I really enjoy all that much that, probably,
once I get into it and if I get into better shape then as much of chore to me.
always a chore.
I started doing this when I was about thirty five
now I'm fifty five.
(( )) I just know that I'm going to get blown away with piece of nonsense.
some health related thing is going to blow me away.
That's the same way,
I got too much weight on right now.
need to lose fifty pounds,
I need to lose at least twenty,
just, I'm busy.
I'm doing a lot of traveling
creates a problem, when you're on the road.
programs other than say running?
ever done anything at all?
I have.
sit ups
last summer I was doing Nautilus
last year I'm, belong to a club right here.
Got kind of expensive, They wanted another fifty dollars. *
That was a little bit too much money.
doing a mix of Nautilus and free weights. I like that.
are you with?
I'm sorry?
What club were you with?
It's called, City Sports, downtown Washington.
you're downtown.
I go to George Washington University.
You're down there on, twentieth and eighteenth and
F G.
It's (( )) , Plaza.
Holiday Spa down there K street, I think. Something like that.
go to the Holiday Spa here in Alexandria
that's pretty good.
evening time it gets pretty busy.
generally, get in and get a program,
I need to rededicate myself doing this
I got a problem, ever since my knee went bad, of getting back solidly into it.
I've been doing this for fifteen, twenty years.
I know it's going to bite me in the ass
really don't back off on it.
It's something,
I think, I'm young,
I should get started getting into shape.
I don't want to,
I want,
at one point it's going to be too late to do it. (( )) .
When you're young,
can abuse all your systems
you can recover.
when you get to be my age and you start abusing your systems, you get blown away.
And just wind up having to kiss your ass good bye,
the object,
The topic is to discuss the, sources where I receive news.
for me that's mostly newspaper and radio,
I almost never watch television, as a matter of course
I don't get news from television,
except during the war,
I watched a lot of C N N because it was so good.
why was C N N the only,
of course I think, Saddam Hussein only allowed C N N to broadcast it,
is that not true?
It was unusual not to have the different sources, of news coverage.
I don't know.
I guess, I don't even know why I watched C N N.
I guess, I just wanted more news.
It's one of the few times I wanted more news than.
I know even if you watched A B C, N B C or the other,
what's the other one, C B S.
C B S.
They all tapped into C N N.
Were they?
That's the only thing they broadcast
like you I listened to radio on my job at work.
all this week they have been having discussion about that is C N N was
I listen to a Christian radio station.
they were saying that C N N is definitely a world, news service
it was,
you can't really be sure of the quality of what you've got,
we had people from our church went to Israel, just for a, tour sort of thing.
I was watching on TV
broadcast this terrible riot
supposedly that was going on in Jerusalem,
we got all fearful for our people, come to find out they came back and said they weren't even aware of it, *
it really made me question as to do we know, if the news we're getting is any good.
I guess, the news just focuses on major events that probably,
don't affect ninety nine percent of the people who are right there when the news is being made.
from California
I can remember being these earthquakes
they were,
they were very minor kinds of things from my point of view, and it seemed, from anyone else's point of view,
they get all blown up in the news.
huh .
find it depressing to watch our,
specially TV,
it's just,
local news concentrates, on murders and things like that.
I'm from Dallas
we have a lot of bad stuff,
it just really gets me depressed,
even to watch it.
then, you wake up one morning
you are in war with somebody
you don't know about it.
what newspapers, do you read in Dallas?
we have the DALLAS TIMES HERALD and the DALLAS MORNING NEWS,
read newspapers .
Don't you?
How come?
I find it hard to, follow from one page to another.
It's just something I have never developed, an interest in.
I live in kind of a bad area where if I have the paper delivered it's stolen before I can get out and get it .
Gosh pretty bad to me.
who would steal a newspaper?
You would be surprised.
They just come by and pick them up even if it's just for the TV, of the day.
I see.
I don't know.
It just wouldn't be there whenever I tried it.
you're right,
who would steal a newspaper?
they do.
What part of California are you from?
from Los Angeles,
I live in Raleigh, North Carolina, right now,
that's where I am speaking to you from.
I grew up in L A
I work out here.
you work for T I?
I don't.
I work for North Carolina State University.
I know some people at T I,
I have a couple of students who have graduated and gone to work for them.
I'm in the computer business.
boy, current events is not a good subject for me.
I don't keep up with it that often.
Let's see, I've never done this before,
I've never.
This is your first call?
This is my first call.
Because I just got my password.
I don't know,
are we suppose to,
it seems to me it says you are suppose to talk for three minutes,
I think we've been talking for three minutes
nobody has interrupted.
got into a conversation last night with a lady
they interrupt at ten,
I see.
if we've done our three minutes.
Let's just let the conversation end and say bye.
all right.
Nice talking to you.
Nice talking to you too.
All right,
Bye bye.
You want to start?
I guess I would first identify myself as middle aged
having seen the last generation, I guess it a perspective on that.
I, am quite positive on the things that I have seen happen recently relative to women society and in the work place,
there's no doubt about the fact that when I was first graduated from college the impression was that a woman's career would consist of a childbearing years and perhaps a return to the office, but not necessarily.
I think the change that I've seen as much as anything is one where couples, are more carefully planning their intention on how to both share homemaking duties and also how women will, have their children and then deliberately sort of plan how they go back to the work place.
I guess that's a significant change that I've both participated in noticed.
I agree,
the equality of, the roles now between the sexes, I guess has been dramatically demonstrated with this war, especially compared with, the Vietnam war
you see women going off to wars as well as men.
I have wondered why they allowed, or let, both the father and mother go,
the children are left without either parent.
to me that's kind of a drawback.
I guess it's a price you pay.
I also wonder about the children that are being brought up in the, day care centers.
Wonder about them in what way?
from what I understand there's been studies that, these children are, more rebellious.
they term it as more, creative.
But, that they, are much more contentious.
guess we'll have to see another generation to see what differences a child being brought up, in community,
rather than a home.
I have not, to be honest, had much experience,
with children in that situation.
guess one knows one's own (( storly ))
I know, in my children's case it was one where, pretty much up until the older of two was let's see, I guess basically starting junior high
the younger was in fifth grade when my wife reentered the work force.
I guess my experience just with what we did
they didn't really go through the child care route.
They were able to be home together.
we never actually experienced that.
in terms of changes relative to women in the work place and the potential changes over next generation or so, I guess I anticipate, an increasing equality, greater presence of women in management roles
I don't know whether there will be an increased amount surrogacy that we see.
I just don't know.
What do you mean?
deliberate childbirth by surrogate mother.
Sort of rent a mom,
to be,
not to be crass about it, but,
That's strange.
whether one might conceive, no pun intended, of the possibility that there might be a kind of a deliberate,
A nanny, sort of?
a professional mother,
For instance, that,
envision a society where that would happen and make an interesting, story or whatever.
don't think I have a philosophical problem with that.
In fact, I think it sort of raises nurturing and being a mother to what it ought to be which is a respected profession.
That's right,
that's right.
don't have a reading male perspective on the biological urges involved relative to being a mother or not.
my sense is that I have very much an interest and had one in being a parent.
don't know that I, felt myself necessarily encumbered with the necessity to have heirs.
I don't have boys,
that bother me,
never has.
Vision more women deliberately raising children either in surrogacy as a professional as you put it,
Maybe we'll see a growth in that where someone makes a career out of, say, taking care of five or six children as opposed to day care.
It would be a sort of day care,
it would be more of a family setting.
I know that there are young people, characterized, I guess as being half my age, so means,
they're young. in my work place, who are both of them earning rather decent professional salaries who probably would consider paying a woman, eight or nine or ten thousand dollars a year to take care of their child,
To come in and live with them?
I could easily envision that.
To come in and live with them?
Or to put their child
where would at eight in the morning drop a two year old off in a home where you knew there were going to be four other kids
you were paying for really high quality care.
I have acquaintances of mine where I know that they are paying figures the order of what I quoted to someone, because that's the experience they want
I would imagine if there are more of people like that with an opportunity a possibility of a change
that we could see in the next few years.
you might have more control over, morals that they would be taught rather than in a classroom or a day care center.
I know the day care centers are not cheap either.
I haven't ever really looked at them.
Are you aware at all,
several single mothers who absolutely can't afford it.
They have to go with a baby sitter or less.
I think it's about sixty dollars a week for two children
if I'm not mistaken.
you have to pay that whether you're on vacation, and taking care of the children or if the children are
that is, just rate that you have to pay
do you envision for the next twenty years as far as women in American society?
I think, I really don't have a vision .
That's okay, too.
I think that they will be more in the work place because, the door's open.
it's just human nature to walk through an open door.
I would be glad to see that.
I hope I don't see a lot more single moms,
(( )) .
seems in my experience I'm running across single women all the time.
noticing that, too,
I notice a terming emerging called solo parents,
that I'm very aware of the number of solo mothers I encounter in the work place,
is a little troublesome.
because the pressures on them
It's awful.
Yeah .
maybe that's a change we'll see.
Maybe, the possibility women, who deliberately say, no,
we'll let the man care of the children perhaps,
in the event of a separation or whatever.
I think we've done it .
I think we're about done.
Thank you very much.
good bye.
It's been interesting.
You take care.
are you a freshwater or,
Mostly freshwater,
used to fish, when I was real young, down in Galveston with my parents,
I never really got into that too much, because you have to get in the boat really to do anything,
I didn't know anybody who had a boat
I don't fish too much in saltwater.
Most of my fishing has been in the saltwater.
mostly deep sea fishing for grouper and bottom fish
I have caught one or two small sharks
What'd you do with them?
Put them back .
You didn't get a big kick out of killing them like some people do?
I love shark steak,
the ones I caught were never large enough to really do anything.
Do they have a limit on sharks,
is that like sport fish,
can you actually catch those
there's no limit.
Is there a limit?
I have no idea.
I know, I,
my home is in, Pensacola, Florida
a lot of shark fishing gulf
there's a certain period of time during the year Galveston to Mayport they have, shark tournaments,
there's part,
either as part of or separate from the, bill fishing tournaments they usually have
I have not done, much freshwater fishing
for, fishing for bass and so forth
but, maybe some what they call brim
and those sorts of things, but nothing,
I think I've been trout fishing once.
I've never fly fished.
Have you fly fished?
I haven't.
I don't know that I could do that.
That looks awful tiring .
I've tried it
Did you.
a friend of mine
Didn't like it?
I could never get the hang of it.
It looks complicated to me.
It's a rhythm or something .
I usually ended snagging my, fishing partners or the trees along the bank .
Catching tree bass,
right .
Yes .
Almost got an owl once.
Did you .
That would have been something.
fish mainly for trophies
eat what you fish.
to do a lot of surf fishing
mostly for relaxation
there are people who fish,
there are people who catch.
I'm a fisher .
You just like to sit down and watch it, right.
That's right,
I've never caught that much,
occasionally we'd go out on a, full day trip, three or four other people
and do either, again, bottom fishing or
or for grouper
a few worthwhile snappers, red snappers and gray snappers and so forth.
That's nice.
What about a,
most of my fishing is done at, area lakes around here, freshwater lakes
most of it,
I haven't been really in a long time.
Last time I went I actually was in Galveston trying to saltwater fish
it just wasn't working with my freshwater tackle.
That was real fun.
I went fishing at, I don't know if you've ever heard of, Lake Worth.
It's a fairly new lake in Texas.
we went fishing there last memorial day, *
I caught my first bass that was actually big enough to keep.
I was so excited.
that's really about it.
Mostly just the lakes around here,
I fish to take home and cook .
get too much joy out of just sitting and watching.
I get a little bit of relaxation from it,
mainly want to say I brought something home.
I want to say I did this,
I was out there for a reason .
The last time I went, bass fishing,
I was with my daughter, a friend of hers, and, a friend of mine and his daughter.
was the only one who did not catch,
a single fish
my daughter caught fish,
his daughter caught fish,
he caught fish.
Everybody but you.
out on a party boat a few years ago,
were grouper fishing,
actually we were, snapper fishing.
Everyone on the boat was catching except guess who.
It had to be you.
Couldn't catch one to save your life.
That's right,
I would go from one side of the boat to the other,
party boat captain could not understand,
started baiting my hook ,
and fishing rod.
How funny,
just hoping maybe, he could pull .
really, really, really bad.
am a fisher,
I'm not a catcher.
I enjoy it though.
I don't really get out as much would like too.
they do, of course,
here in,
we're, forty five minutes to an hour away from the eastern shore here in Maryland
they do a lot of fishing there.
Of course what I used to like to do though is go snorkeling for scallops
in some of the bays,
That would be fun.
that I was able to do, when I could go in and go down and actually pick them off the bottom.
Right .
Hand picked .
That right .
The weirdest fishing experience I ever had. People to this day are still trying to figure out if I really caught what I think I caught.
We were in, Rockport, which is close to Corpus
we had been fishing in a canal,
they had all these canals up through this one little retirement area,
we'd been fishing in the canals
all we were catching were catfish,
we were pretty bored with that.
we thought maybe there are some crab in here,
we'll try to catch some crab.
I got my chicken (( )) and all my little net and everything,
I had a rock to weight it down,
something grabs and just runs with it.
of course there's no hook,
it can't be a fish.
I'm sure it's not a fish,
crab, they don't bite like that,
they don't just run with your food.
I netted it,
it was the ugliest fish I've ever seen in my life.
It had real teeth, like human teeth,
it looked archaic.
had no idea what it was.
I called my father long distance just to describe the thing,
it had the rock in it's mouth, not the chicken,
the rock itself
is what it had grabbed.
They say it's a dog fish, from everything I've described,
it was brown with these little white dots
it made a loud, almost a croaking noise like a croaker does
was the strangest thing.
I'll never get over that.
To this day I don't want to get in the water,
anywhere around salt water because I'm sure one of those fish are there.
we used to,
I guess the weirdest thing I've ever caught is, in some of the inlets and the rivers around (( )) Delaware.
They have a fish that's called an oyster cracker.
I don't know if you've ever heard of it
I've never heard of that one.
it has a huge strong mouth,
they actually, use their teeth to open oysters.
That's where it gets its name, obviously,
this is the ugliest,
fish I have ever seen,
they come in all si ,
caught them from, three or four inches long
up to,
I guess the largest one I ever caught was probably eight or ten inches long,
but just huge, ugly things
just terrible.
Can you eat them?
don't think I'd want to even if you could if they're that ugly,
look as though you do not want to do anything with them.
That's like this dog fish,
me to death.
it didn't look like, it looked like it was something out of the dark ages that just never died.
the first time I went surf fishing was in (( )) ,
I threw my line out
the first thing I caught was a sand shark, which was probably a foot,
and a half or, two feet long,
scared me to death.
I had never seen anything,
I for another half hour or forty five minutes, caught a few white fish and so forth,
then I felt something relatively heavy,
I thought, going to get one.
let's see.
How do you feel about credit cards?
Personally, I do not care for them. although I find them a necessity in business and so forth,
try to refrain from their use as much as possible. for a number of reasons, one of which is the, extreme interest rate on most of them.
The one I use, of course, business purposes is, American Express.
terribly in favor of them.
Not for my own personal, point of view.
Plus increased our debt
to the tune of somewhere on the order of five to ten billion, I believe
at least that's one number for this range of numbers heard.
Do you use them frequently
we have extra money that we know we're going to have, and we can put it in our budget, yeah, use it.
last year, I think we paid,
I think it was like twenty something cents interest,
on our Visa.
I think year used it for Christmas,
we got caught just a few days on our grace period.
we'll pay a little interest this year, but maybe two dollars.
we don't like to do that at all.
feel about the same way you do real strongly.
have several credit cards, though.
We have a gas card, our Visa, and then, of course, the American Express,
I think we have a couple of department stores.
we use it the same way,
I find the one I use mostly,
aside from the American Express, I do use my Sears card.
with the American Express, I try to pay it, as it comes in.
not uncommon for us to have paid it before we even get the bill.
That's usually how we do it.
I know what I would do on my American Express card is I would mail a check American Express
and, have some idea of how much was there, several hundred dollars, or whatever
I felt I would spend.
And then use it then.
for hotels so forth.
I knew that it was paid .
I knew
I knew that I had that much
credit, going in.
I would go over,
hit me way because
I knew that, I would have it covered in that respect.
That's good.
gone that far (( )) ,
to pay it before we spend it,
I guess if you foresaw that you were going to have to use it, like that,
I found
that may be good.
I found traveling overseas
that, often expedite things to have an American Express credit card
Oh really.
for hotel bills and so forth.
Plus send the bill, they would automatically convert to the exchange rate.
now, the only time that got to be a problem was, if the exchange rate changed drastically.
for example, I remember on one trip to France when I started planning the trip, I think, a dollar was worth nine or ten
francs *
just in a matter of a week or two the dollar fell against the franc, drastically. *
I finally got over there, it had fallen, two or three francs to the dollar.
the ,
Wow .
I got caught a little short
in that regard,
was anticipating, my room would cost, let's say
if it were, say sixty or seventy francs a night
that would mean it would be about ten dollars or so, or maybe twenty dolls ,
maybe it would be more than that.
It was more than.
It would average out to thirty five or forty dollars a night
which is a reasonable rate.
then when I got back and I was working for the government at the time
of course the government was several months behind in,
their, on its per diem for exchange rate.
there's a little consternation, in trying to get them to compensate,
for the difference in the exchange rate.
That was the only time I really got caught short.
as I said, of all I try not to use them, lavishly, in that regard.
from where are you calling?
from the Dallas area.
you're from Dal ,
I'm from Maryland.
Yeah .
Do you work for T I?
I work for G T E.
I wonder how T I got G T E involved.
I know Jack Godfrey.
I know him very well.
I've known Jack for a long time,
I'm also in the speech business.
when I heard that Jack was going to do this, I called him and asked for an application where I could participate
in this.
that's how I got involved.
You have a
what's the word.
speech is very exact.
Thank you very much .
as Jack said, I'm one of old hands in the speech business.
been doing it for twenty some odd years.
I was very much interested, in getting involved in, switchboard.
you work for T I?
I work in (( )) .
I guess we're supposed to do this part of it before we started the recording .
Yeah .
I think we talked for a good eight minutes about the subject,
I think you get ten,
I think we're okay.
you have a good evening.
you too.
It's been pleasant talking to you.
Same here.
Take care.
Good night.
what would you have at a dinner party?
lately, since I have children I've cut down on having dinner parties .
when I do I try to keep it pretty simple on things that I can prepare ahead of time ,
I have one recipe for, a really good, type of a meatball.
It's called burgundy meatball
it's made with red wine and,
that sounds great.
really good
you can make it ahead of time and then, make the sauce when you're ready serve it.
That's one of my favorite things serve.
I think it would probably depend on whether this was a formal or a informal dinner party.
if it was informal, my first choice would be crawfish.
I guess being from that part of the country.
crawfish, everybody over here likes crawfish
wouldn't have to worry about satisfying my guest.
if it was a formal dinner party I would probably think of something else like,
fettucini is real easy
to, make and everything
it's usually well liked by people, I guess,
I'm just a seafood fan
how do,
I think on the lines of,
make, how do cook crawfish?
just came back from the grocery store
being in Texas we don't have too many, people eat crawfish
they had live crawfish,
on sale.
eat them dead.
you eat them dead
Don't buy them that way .
Because they are dead for too long,
you can always tell whenever they're cooked if they've been dead for a long time because their tail straightens out.
you're not supposed to eat those because they're bad for you.
I'll remember that.
if you ever go in a restaurant, order crawfish,
every once in a while you'll see on ,
it doesn't happen very often because it's just an accident
if the tail is straight on it then, yeah,
don't eat it.
you just put some Cajun, lots of pepper
you just boil them
they're absolutely wonderful
a pain to peel for some people.
Once you get used to it they're real easy
if you have nails or anything you can plan on those being shot.
you serve it do you shell them and then serve em too?
I think for a dinner party
don't know
it depends.
there was a bunch of college kids coming over for a dinner party, no, would shell their own,
we'd just have crawfish and beer or something
if it was more formal like if I was, working environment then I would probably, 'em or at least disconnect them from the head .
there's a,
Still have see that. *
There's a, big thing over here that everybody sucks the head.
. *
would just
That's the best part of the crawfish.
Sucking the head
I don't know
just depends on what type it was I guess
you can buy the crawfish shells already peeled 'n everything
usually you use those for frying
or to put in salads or to make a sauce with or something like that
you can go ahead and buy 'em cooked and shelled
they're more expensive of course
Does it taste a lot like shrimp
it really does *
I like shrimp better *
Just The crawfish it just has a taste of its own
It also depends on who's cooking it and how much seasoning they use
stuff like that
I think that
also to get totally off the subject of crawfish lots of vegetables and hors d'oeuvres and stuff like that for a dinner party I think that that really helps
We have friend another couple where the husband is the one who cooks
all the time
That's what I need
that's what I wish I had
in our family I am the one who who cooks
really enjoy it
it's gotten a little more difficult with kids
I really do enjoy cooking
have them over for dinner
back and forth quite a lot
before I had my second child we sort of had a contest going where
he would cook and then the next time it would be my turn and I'd try to outdo him
and then he'd try to outdo
was really a lot of fun
I bet
got pretty competitive
it did
far as
could come
with the best recipe
fancier or more courses than the other
would be fun
it was a lot of fun
it something unique
we got into different themes whether it would be ethnic food
Or sometimes it would be oh Oh I don't know maybe an outdoor theme or elegant theme or
It was a lot of fun
Sometimes it might be the candlelight
sometimes it might be the picnic out back
or something
it was fun
we threatened to make the other two make us dinner one time
Just to even it out since we seemed to be unfairly doing all the cooking
they were doing all the enjoying
That sounds right I
would I'd take him up on that
It does
except that knowing them they would probably do something
ridiculous and terrible just
just to make sure that they didn't have to do it again
make hot
dogs or
some potato chips
can cook
doing a lot more cooking now than I used to
that's only because my mom just started working
she's tired when she comes home in the afternoon
I try to have things cooked for her
that's nice
I usually try to stay out of kitchen
I don't know
not one of my favorite hobbies
be fun you have the time
a lot of times it's too much of a rush really be able to enjoy it
my grandma speaking
of those meatballs again she owned every Christmas Easter
whenever we have the big get together over at her house she makes this meat ball sauce
it has
I don't know
they are just kind of like quarter size meatballs
they are absolutely delicious
I don't know what she calls them in
sure she puts wine in it because she cooks everything with alcohol
I don't know
be interested in getting that recipe for you if you have it around
in the other room
I don't know if we
have enough time for it
it's real easy
one of the unique things in this it's like a pound of ground beef some bread crumbs an egg whatever seasonings
you can just light
salt and pepper and chopped up water chestnuts
which is something different
that would be wonderful
makes them a little bit crunchy
you need to chop em up real fine
it makes them crunchy
that adds something new to it
the sauce is just made with bouillion cubes
water burgundy wine and cornstarch instead of flour
thick rich type of a sauce
it's more of a
when you use corn starch gravy like when you have Chinese food
That kind of a gravy or a sauce that comes with a lot of that They use corn starch instead of flour in all of their sauces and gravies *
it gives it a bit of a different consistency
how long do you cook the meatballs
The meatballs after you form them fry them in a pan until
they're browned on sides
drain off all the grease
then what I usually do is I freeze them
you're ready
to serve
them then you cook the sauce and then put the meatballs into the sauce And heat it
probably you have to heat it up for a good
if they're frozen it may take a half for them to thaw out
then heat them thoroughly in the sauce itself
Let them simmer in the sauce itself
it's real good
That sounds great
Especially the fact that you can prepare the meatballs far in advance
And then freeze them
you are having a dinner party on Wednesday night you could do it on a weekend
That would be great
I think I'm going to have to keep that in mind for my future because I
hope lots of dinner parties
Cause I like to
I'm sure that I'll be involved in a big company
I know that my future husband will be
He's going to be working for Chevron
in Houston
he's going to be
I'm sure that dinner parties will
come in handy
meet friends
the boss over
I have
to impress the boss
friends at work
and clients cause public relations in school
based on my clients 'n stuff like that
I'm going to have lots of dinner parties
have to take 'em out to eat
Right now I'm taking a class on ettiquesy *
all the little
bitty things that I didn't even know
E I
mean I thought for sure I'd been raised properly
I've been doing a lot of things wrong I didn't know
Is there anything else
think we've covered the subject
I got some interesting information about crawfish
I was in fact
It's good cause I was curious about that today when I saw those for
you need to try em
they're wonderful.
I will
I'm sure my husband will be surprised, 'cause we were talking about them the other day before
basketball teams are you interested in?
I guess I'm a big fan,
when it comes to pros.
the college ranks, I guess I really,
of course I try to follow my alma mater,
that's, B Y U,
in Utah.
they don't have much of a team usually.
they're more of a football team than they are basketball team.
You see them in football on T V once in awhile.
You never see them nationally basketball.
that's true.
I don't think I've ever seen them nationally on basketball.
had a really good team,
(( )) the year that Danny Aines was there.
That was about five, six years ago by now.
they made it to the sweet sixteen,
once or twice,
That's not too bad.
in their history,
they usually lose in the first round.
(( )) .
How about you?
I'm, originally from the Saint Louis area,
the only basketball team, pro anyway, in that part of the country is Chicago.
do pull for Chicago.
of course, this year is a good year to be Chicago fan, I guess, because they're doing pretty good.
Is it the Bulls you're talking about?
the pro,
as far as college teams, I know it's really easy to say,
I've been pulling for, Duke for about four years now
Is that right?
I finally am feeling better about myself as far as college teams. Although, really,
again being from Saint Louis, I pull for Missouri.
they're on, probation this year
you can't do much about that.
did you watch the, final four this year?
I watched every,
Every game?
I watched all three games of that.
I was very pleased with all three games, because Kansas,
I was pulling for Kansas on the other side,
it was real nice to have teams that were there.
Of course, I wasn't really,
U N L V kind of gave me the impression of being macho team,
to think they were better than everybody else
maybe they were,
I was real happy to see them get knocked off.
watched that game.
it was a good game.
It was a very close game, and hard fought game.
it just,
I don't know,
it looked like U N L V may have had more, talent,
as far as playing together as a team that day, Duke seemed to have them off balance.
that, they
aren't they more of a running gun team (( )) ?
U N L V,
play the pro style, is,
what I've always called it.
fast breaks and things and,
the fast breaks
They shut all that down and made them play half court it seemed
U N L V wasn't used to that.
Of course, whenever U N L V went in at half time, (( ))
I don't know if they were necessarily behind,
they weren't ahead as much as they normally are.
that meant that they had to play a second half
not had to do that all year
to go through some tough games during the year
that's a terrible time to have to deal with that, counts so much.
That's right.
Duke's schedule so much harder than U N L V's that just made them a much tougher team overall,
that had to help them a lot.
probably was the difference in that game.
it really could have gone way. Down to the end,
do I take it that you think though that the Lakers will,
will win
I don't know.
Probably not.
Portland's pretty good.
Since Kareem's retired,
they haven't had a center.
they've got Perkins,
I don't think he's really been a super star for them.
I don't,
to me is not a center,
he's more of a,
a real tall forward .
I think Magic does a,
They'll make it,
it, it's going to be a war Chicago Boston Celtics.
That's going to be a war.
That sure is.
It's going to be a great series.
I think that's going to be one of those won by the home team,
whoever has home court advantage is going to win that one I think.
One of those two will probably be, in there,
let me see,
where does Detroit fit in?
Detroit's in same, division.
I don't know,
those three,
Detroit hasn't been having that great a year this year.
as I heard, Isaiah came back this week.
that might help them.
play off experience,
do , all three of them do,
with Larry Bird back,
you can never count the Celtics out when Larry Bird's,
That's true.
starting to click on all cylinders.
They say he's
yeah, he's been kind of up and down all year.
one game and he'll be playing to where everything he throws up goes in
the next time he'll,
he can't seem to hit the side of a barn.
I don't know,
I'm not sure about him this year.
Last I've heard is that he's starting to peak right now.
that's when,
you do it.
starting to be more consistent, time of the year.
any dark horses I,
the dark horses,
San Antonio,
San Antonio is the dark horse that really flip in there, I think.
anybody who has David Robinson,
has got to have a chance anyway.
He's got to be pretty much,
I use to say (( Akimo Lija )) was the dominant player, when he,
against any team he would dominate,
Robinson's getting up there (( where )) ,
That's right.
every game, he's just,
it looks like he's going in for a dunk
they kind of just scoot out of his way or take a step back,
nobody's got enough beef, I guess, to challenge him driving hard to the hoop.
too bad the Mavericks couldn't get him.
That's true.
With Roy Tarpley they're in big trouble.
then, he's gone now
for awhile anyway.
they don't have to worry about that.
I thought he was gone period.
didn't read the story,
read that,
I heard he was suspended.
that might have been what it was,
Because of his,
guess the headlines said something about him, that the Mavericks released him or something,
misunderstood what they meant.
If they did, they'd still have to pay his contract .
They may have done it.
you never know.
It was a lot of money.
He was making
I heard on the radio it was sixty three thousand and change a month.
That's what he was being paid,
he wasn't even playing.
boy, what a good job he had .
That's what I think.
He ruined his sweet position .
Yeah .
I'm looking forward to pro play off,
It's coming up, isn't it.
L A,
San Antonio,
who's the other one that's doing so well this year,
I haven't seen them on much T V that much at all,
all I can do is hear about,
boy they have the seeing eye.
What do they have
Walter Davis and,
They've got Johnson brothers
they're not brothers,
I mean there's two guys named Johnson on their team that are really good or doing good or something,
I forget how that works.
like I said they're doing extremely good right now.
Phoenix isn't doing too bad.
ought to be a real interesting play off.
I don't think there's any clear pick,
I guess the two teams that you can't count out are the Celtics because of Bird, and the Lakers because of Magic Johnson.
They are two guys that seem to find a way when they,
When it's on the line.
When it's on the line, they seem to find a way.
those are what makes a champion I guess.
that's true.
it's been nice talking to you.
Nice talking to you.
All right.
Take care.
Take care.
when you baby sit, what age group children do you sit with?
all kinds,
mostly between the ages of two and ten.
summers ago I kept two children every day for the entire summer
they became like my children .
I'd think so.
they live in an apartment complex
we swam a lot
we played on the playground a lot
we would go to a movie on Thursdays
there was always an activity,
they had their favorite T V shows and things like that that we watched
we took naps
I don't know
just seems like there was always something to do.
Children are so full of energy.
just keep you going .
was this a one parent or two parent family?
one parent.
One parent.
She's just,
How much time did she spend with them?
Not much at all .
I would get there at eight o'clock in the morning,
the children usually weren't awake by then.
she would get home at five thirty in the afternoon.
they would have dinner
it was time for them to go to bed.
at this particular time the children were two and six.
then I also,
I've been baby sitting this child, for about eight years,
he's nine now
I've watched him grow up
he's like a little brother to me.
it's changed years,
we get along a lot better now that he's older.
we do different things now,
we used to play ball a lot
now it's, he likes to watch T V
he's into wrestling.
I kept him on Friday night,
a movie and, things like that
I feel like, I don't know, when I have children I want to be able to spend a lot of time with them.
(( )) you say to school?
I go to L S U.
what are you studying?
sounds like your getting a lot of experience in communicating with children .
I love children.
I don't know,
when I was growing up my Mom stayed at home with me and my brother until we were in junior high.
I don't,
very beneficial to us.
in the summer we were always in the library programs reading books
we went skating a lot
she was just always there for us,
nowadays if there are two parents to a family, the mother works just as hard as the father does,
the children stay at home and get into trouble
they're stuck in a day care.
don't want my children to have to be raised like that.
All my friends, parents worked all the time,
they got to stay at home by themselves
when I was younger I thought they were lucky because they got to get away with things,
like I couldn't ride my bike across the street, but they could because they're Mom would never know it.
now I realize that it was better because, they have got into a lot of trouble,
because of lack of supervision.
certainly can happen now if
say you're in communications,
what base of communications would you be most interested in getting in to?
I'm majoring in, public relations.
Public relations,
you would have a job with a company?
Yes, ma'am.
Rather than, radio or television or newspapers or,
what have you.
then you'd be willing to give up your job to stay home the children?
I would like to, stay at home with my children for at least the first five years.
I plan to do in the future is, go ahead and get my upper education as far as my masters,
and work on my doctorate and teach, college,
in that case then at home when my children are at home,
I'd like to stay at home with them until they get kindergarten,
where they're at school from what, eight to three or something
I would be at my school,
is an advantage of being in the education field.
I spent thirty four years in education.
C and,
What grade?
I started out with college and then went to high school
I preferred the high school age level much better than I did the college,
did you?
because you have a closer relationship with the, students,
What did you teach?
I taught physical education.
I started out as a P E major,
in education.
I wanted to be a P E teacher.
I sure did.
found that, it was a perfect combination from the standpoint of having vacations off at the same time.
it worked out fine from that standpoint, plus the fact that, when I left,
usually, my husband was seldom home for maybe forty five minutes or so
our son, he had to get on the bus,
he did get on the bus,
it was his responsibility
he never ever thought of, not going to school he said, in view of the fact that he was certain I had a hot line to his school.
Because, I,
was in physical education then
I just kept getting pushed into administration,
wound up in administration,
he thought surely that would have bought a hot line,
to know if he ever skipped school, which, of course, was not the case
I wouldn't have checked on him.
However, points both directions in that, from the standpoint of parents working and not working.
I listened to more than one parent say I don't know what this child wants.
I'm working two jobs,
they each have their own television,
they each have their own telephone,
they each have their own rooms,
they each have this,
they each have that.
(( I'd say )) , but what they don't have is you.
That's right.
They need some attention.
I (( think out ))
that is the way of getting attention.
whenever my Mom stayed home with us, we did without a lot,
we were,
it's hard to make it on one income,
That's right.
we did
we lived in a trailer for eighteen years.
only had one car,
we only had one telephone,
we didn't get to eat out all the time
feel like that it helped me now because I appreciate the value of the dollar,
I also had the supervision that I needed while I was growing up,
I hope that I can provide that for my child too.
need more of that,
we need more parents willing to supervise,
we've had such a breakdown in the family structure,
we have.
from the standpoint church and school and everything along the way.
that I think has contributed much to, the delinquency that (( works grant )) and the poor school results that we're having. that the students, parents have just not really taken enough interest in them from the beginning
I think my feeling was that the very best teachers should be in grades one, two, and three. To get the students off to a good start let them have positive, experiences,
from the lower levels so they want to continue learning and, keep going and not wait until in the ninth and tenth grades,
it's too late then,
you cannot,
It is.
reverse that trend at that point.
It's way too late,
I agree.
while parents very often will be involved with the school activities when the child's in the elementary school
they get into the high schools so often they seem to drop away at that point.
that is just as valuable,
It is.
at that time, as to the (( rush in the elementary )) .
Because all the peer pressure,
it starts in high school
the parent really needs to be there for the child.
the child needs to take pride in the fact that their parent is doing something.
we were fortunate in view of the fact that my son did play football
I did keep statistics for his team,
his Dad did take movies of the football team and movies of the basketball team,
we tried to be a part of it but not overshadowing him or making him feel that we had to be there all the time.
I feel that I learned a great deal from my students, with regard to what their biggest complaints were with parents.
a thing such as,
one of the biggest complaints I well remember because I spent a lot of time with seniors,
was, carrying their (( ))
when I was your age I didn't have this or that,
that that was one thing that was really irritating to young people.
I guess that was good that hearing it from other students.
I had to deal with their problems
I could talk about the kinds of problems which they were bringing that they had just in general aspect
our son would share this
he would have to make decisions for himself along those same types lines. So that,
I think he benefited from my experiences.
Does your son work for T I?
he, works, for a different company.
in the Dallas area
when he went away to coll ,
he was (( on the lawns )) from the time he was in the seventh grade and, a small (( )) and all the way through college
he held three jobs. (( Wally )) was in college *
we didn't even know it.
He didn't even tell us.
that he had three jobs
when he graduated he had a five thousand dollar bank account
we had told him that if he ever wanted to go to college he could go,
if he got married he was on his own,
if he flunked out he was on his own ...
one year public service for everybody.
it, right? .
who wants to start this one?
Em ,
I don't know,
sitting here thinking,
because it a couple tries before I found somebody.
not really sure what I think about this.
the first thing is, if it's going to be mandatory, it's got to be mandatory,
everybody, not just poor people and all that, But,
senators' sons and all that stuff too.
everybody's got to do it.
I don't know,
I just don't know if, I was eighteen or whatever, I'd want to be stuck doing it for a year or whatever.
I'm not sure I want an eighteen year old to make that kind of decision.
doesn't sound right.
I guess I see overall beneficial, we're going from that point of view.
the past,
how old you are,
when I was, in high school, it was the beginning of Vietnam and so forth.
many of my peers were being drafted.
I could see that many of them had conscientious objections to war or whatever.
felt strongly then that even if they didn't feel like they could kill someone, or go into a military situation, that they could help the country in other ways. Be it cleaning out, lots, their neighborhood or,
whatever kind of community or public service might be available.
I guess I see that not so much a demand a privilege.
It is,
It's something,
since we live here and we all benefit, rich, poor or in between, I just see that as maybe a good idea.
I wouldn't mind doing it at forty four.
I find ways turn some of that back others.
guess can't see that as being something to really object to.
I guess it would still depend on how,
if you're talking about something that's like this is what you do,
You're going to go fill pot holes all that stuff.
don't know .
I could see a run , a gamut of different kinds of opportunities.
Things that need to be done,
be done in an hour or two,
a day, or several hours of the week. Like a half of a day on Saturday or something like that. In addition to what one does,
besides that.
can't, imagine what kind of, bureaucracies we'd get into and expense having it be full time,
you're going to go to this camp
you're going to,
back in the Depression, the C C C,
the construction corps that went out and did things. That was great, *
it was needed,
it gave some folks some jobs,
we got some great public works out of it.
I don't see that as being necessary now.
I can see it being done, on a regular schedule.
everybody has to put in so many hours of, public service in a given time, perhaps.
guess I see all of us benefiting,
don't see it just relegated to the young.
see so much going on that, that's bad.
this would give them a chance to have some positive self esteem.
Something that they turn,
also, feel more like, you're actually part of the community if you've done something,
That's right.
in it.
You take pride in that, get positive feedback from those who benefit,
besides yourself.
see it being most beneficial if it's in the person lives.
It might not be the same neighborhood, but the same city or county, because then coming in contact with it.
It's not as meaningful for me to go to Minnesota and do something up there that I'll never be able to see again, unless I happen to go on vacation,
up there.
to be something that has more impact for the individual, on going.
as far as putting that into work, deal heartache of, first of all, getting it started and figuring out how to do the logistics,
that would,
of it.
be a nightmare.
it going.
see a lot of things like, scouting,
Boys Clubs, Girls Clubs, things like that, that kind of get into that citizenship, the looking after the environment sort of thing
I guess, I don't see, this being that different. But even more beneficial because it would be something that everybody participated in,
and would take a turn in.
huh .
Do you have kids?
not yet .
In about six months we will .
have a little time think about that.
I guess, have,
when I was teaching school I saw kids that were at loose ends and that didn't really have a purpose.
I can see, really significant things coming out of it.
I know you've got to get past grudge attitude that many have,
that would be a part of selling it to the community.
The adults, ahead of it would probably never serve to each succeeding generation. There definitely would have to be a major P R campaign in each community, each county, *
parish or however the state was divided up.
I may,
I don't know,
around here we have a number of community projects that folks just volunteer for.
Boy Scout troops or church groups or civic clubs will, police couple of miles of the highway and kee ,
seen it in other states too.
They have,
I don't know,
that here.
they've got, in most of the states around here I think,
down in North Carolina, there was a big controversy for a while, because local chapter of the K K K wanted to,
to participate in it
there was a, *
there were those that said, No,
you can't do that, I'm sure.
Yeah. *
interesting because that's an interesting question,
Should these people be allowed to or not?
I think they finally decided not to because they figured that stretch of highway was going to get trashed .
I hadn't even thought about the other end of that.
an interesting, situation.
I hadn't thought of that.
We had visited relatives in Virginia, not too long ago,
I thought I had seen, when we were traveling around the state, some similar signs up that indicated that certain sections were being policed and cleaned up
I think Virginia's got it
I know Maryland does,
went to Indianapolis last weekend, and back.
I'm pretty sure I saw, yeah, stuff in Ohio and about it and
I don't remember for sure now.
I don't know about your part of the country,
down here in the last, year plus,
There's just been more of a turn toward environmental concerns,
work for Texas Instruments.
started some recycling campaigns that a year before that had been turned down because they said, it's not feasible,
it's not a good idea.
then they lost,
I see that as being,
too much business .
see that as being a change, for the positive. Kind of along the same line as the mandatory thing.
It's just, a part of everyone's consciousness.
the thing about that is though, it's got a,
because big, in the early seventies and all that.
it kind of just went out of vogue.
worried that will happen.
It's like, environmentalism was really big for a couple of years
I'd spend, fifty cents less on such and such,
even if it's not environmentally safe, who cares,
I'm sure the pendulum will swing the other way.
there have been too many other things that it's done that for, just in my life.
if you look at history at all, you see that, we go from one side to the other on just about any subject,
that might care to bring up.
it is comforting to me to see, more concern about some of these things cost us money.
Especially when we have dwindling, resources such as oil that's burning out of control in the Persian Gulf, so forth.
every little bit does,
it makes me feel better.
makes me feel like, there may be something left for my children, my nieces and nephews and so forth.
it's just probably a good thing that the oil's burning and make some people realize that hey, this stuff runs out.
right, because,
Of course, that's probably blasphemy for you to say, coming from where you are in Texas.
because if, we,
what was it, seventy four when we had oil crisis?
we started getting smart
we were looking all these alternative sources of the energy and so forth.
as soon as the oil prices came back down, the pendulum swang the other way.
we need those reminders.
we'll suddenly be in the dark and say, my goodness, now we don't have the ability to go on to some new technology.
my dad's solar energy business,
we're acutely aware of a lot of this.
on the other hand, he voted for George Bush,
wonder sometimes if he knows what he's doing.
I thi ,
just about anybody you could name, whether I voted for them or not,
makes, decisions that I just can't go along with.
that's why they're there and not me.
I don't want the,
I don't want the stress.
thing with Bush ...
I was just trying to think about dress for work,
T I is a very casual atmosphere.
what I usually do on the weekend lay out five outfits
on Monday wear worst looking one .
Because it doesn't seem like people that alive on Monday,
progressively through the week, wear nicer looking things
on Friday most everybody wears or, jeans and blouses or something like that.
mostly what I wear are skirts and blouses or, skirts and, pullover sweaters or, little two piece dress like,
that's a good way to approach it.
I've never thought about,
I do plan my clothes a week in advance.
Actually, I plan them a month in advance.
I usually do a month at a time,
I don't repeat an outfit.
I've never thought about wearing your worst outfit on Monday, because really no one's paying attention.
don't work outside of school.
I work in the computer lab at school
I can just wear whatever I have on for school,
really it's,
I try to presentable but very comfortable.
in the warm weather it's always shorts and a t shirt or a button up or something like that
in the winter time it's jeans pants.
I usually,
college is so casual,
you really don't want to dress up unless have a job
you have to be there right after school or something like that,
where I work, pretty casual,
I guess it's more like college campus
also, there's of people work for T I.
a lot of people wear jeans sweats all the time
they dress up when customers are coming in,
or, when we have department meetings or something like that.
a lot of people like those that work in the legal department for real, higher ups,
like the T I lawyers, and, those that work for higher executives, those secretaries. really dress up all the time.
there's a good combination in the hallways all the time, .
that's good that they're so casual.
my brother works for T I
he's a
whenever he was going to school, he was expecting to having to wear, a tie or a dress shirt everyday.
he goes to work in his blue jeans, t shirt,
and tennis shoes,
he just loves it.
that's very acceptable at T I.
I believe at I B M make you wear a blue suit and, some kind of colored shirt and a tie.
That's what I've heard.
hate to be in that atmosphere.
just moved into the new building,
he calls it the new building.
I don't know,
it's where all the executives are.
going to try to take their blue jean code with them and trying to get upper level to start wearing blue jeans.
he just left for Italy today at four,
he'll be over there until July first setting up some kind of computers for them.
I see.
but over in Italy.
T I is everywhere.
he was so excited about going.
he didn't carry any ties or anything because just went over there with attitude, if I don't take it then they won't make me wear it .
That's true,
that's a good idea.
Because, didn't,
he's not really into all that.
He would wear it if he had to for his job and all
preference is, blue jeans and a t shirt,
I think that's great about T I,
also, to get off the clothing, the smokers, how they have the,
the different designated areas for smokers and stuff.
I think that's great.
if you happen to go into one of areas that is a area you don't smoke, you almost strangle.
Do you smoke?
So much smoke in the air.
it's closed in,
smoke and you go in there,
goes in there smokes
it's full of smoke you go in there.
I used to smoke a long time ago.
I think that's,
I used to burn my clothes, talking about getting back to clothes .
I used to burn my clothes with cigarettes.
That's one of the reason that I stopped .
mentioned your daughter had graduated from college.
when she was in high school did she always have to have all the new fashions
to have a lot of clothes.
I am
my mamma was not raised like that
wasn't either,
she's real good at finding sales though,
me to,
boy I have
to, hunt them down .
buy a lot clothes, at the end of seasons,
and, just have them for the next year.
finds all the outlets and all the discount places and, buys clothes.
they were coming up, didn't sew,
now learned how to sew,
I'm still learning how,
much better at it
That's great.
I'm going to be able to make my own clothes.
I wanted to take a sewing class at school
I just haven't fit it into my schedule yet,
can really benefit.
that's something that I'd be learning.
because clothes expensive.
they're outrageous!
a little simple blouse, that you can make for about, say ten dollars at the most out of a decent fabric,
boy, runs you like twenty something dollars in the store.
Yeah it's,
Just a little shell to go under a suit,
it's marked up.
really outrageous
whenever was growing up and all, my mom,
I never understood this then,
I do now,
she never would buy me like the new designer jeans that had come out that were thirty dollars,
she wouldn't buy me the fifty dollar tennis shoes and stuff like that
she always told me it was because I was still growing
she wasn't going to buy me something I was going to grow out of next week.
especially to pay that kind of money for it.
I have a friend who,
she used to dress him out of Neiman Marcus.
no .
she dressed him, fabulously.
seems like every time she turned around he was outgrowing stuff.
she finally learned that you just can not do this, *
now she finds the basement sales just like, everybody else.
That's the best way to shop.
I always thought my mom was being mean to me
I look back at it now
my child is going to,
I'm going to raise mine the same way.
I don't know,
so outrageously priced,
it's just incredible.
I try to, always catch the sales.
Always .
you just have to keep buying them,
if you're not buying the most expensive clothes out there quality is really not that great, for the price that you pay.
depends on,
always a reason why they're on sale .
has a lot to do with it.
the most beautiful from, I believe it was Ross Dress For Less .
really pretty,
embellished around top,
it had, designs some little things on it
I just thought it was so pretty
it at a real good price,
I think maybe it was nine ninety nine or something.
that's great.
it was so pretty,
after I wore it a couple of times I realized it was,
it was so cheap.
it's like there,
it had been slit
they had just sewed it back together,
right in the middle of the back,
wasn't a seam or anything,
huh .
that's why it was so cheap, although, really noticeable, from the outside,
still, really not a good quality.
then I was told by somebody that works for J C Penney's that, is just one of those places that seconds.
The defect.
they don't really buy the first quality,
they buy the second.
places like J C Penney's they'll reject the seconds,
they'll send them back every time.
places like Ross Dress For Less and, T J Max.
T J Max does that,
we have a T J Max over here
what do you think about it?
the roles have definitely changed
in the last generation or so.
I think a lot of it has to do with women working.
I do too.
I think it's going to,
the future, I think all women are going to work.
they may let you off for a day or two to have your baby,
that will be it,
either they'll have a computer at home and in the hospital where you continue right on with your work.
really is coming to that because most women now days cannot afford the time that they could take off unless the company pays them.
They can't even afford to take off, to have children it seems like.
seems, if you're going to have kids, that decided for you how many you can really have and make it.
if you have, two, if you go to work, you're, just working to pay for day care,
two or three,
I was real lucky because my husband had a good enough job where
until I didn't have to work.
that is good.
I didn't work,
needed to
I didn't.
a sister who has four.
She just had her fourth one in, March
she doesn't have to work either.
I don't know how they do it.
know how people do it with one,
obviousl ,
Let me tell you, you go without a lot of things that you wo ,
obviously we don't have any
that's part of the role reversal, is it's okay to get married and not have kids.
I think such a long time said, you're married, now you need to have your family
I don't think it's been until recently they had decided that two people was a family.
it's getting where to have over two.
it's hard with two,
my youngest one,
I have two,
I have a son and a daughter,
my youngest one is going to be graduating from college soon,
if I had a third one,
Yea ,
I just don't know where it would come from.
Because I work now,
I work full time
when you put them through college it just takes just about everything you got.
They get loans and grants and scholarships and stuff like that,
that helps out,
still, it cost a lot.
just cost of living and loans don't pay for groceries and stuff.
cars and all their books,
the books are outrageous.
I know,
I know.
absolutely outrageous,
they're getting worse.
my daughter brought home a book the other day that she was going to have to have for next classes
it was like ninety six dollars.
Gee .
this book is a little bitty skinny book.
I said my goodness, what is it, lined in gold,
getting worse,
if I'd of probably had three or four children, I don't see how we could have made it, without me working.
probably because, if you had three, you, would say, if I'd of had four.
I guess it's always being able to picture one more,
in essence you probably would have worked out fine.
I think I would have had to work.
If I'd of had that many, I'd of had to work in order for my kids to,
even though he brings in a real good living and everything, in order for me to keep up, I would have had to work.
I think it's getting more and more like,
when you have one child now, that's it,
then you go to work
you work,
if you have two or three kids, by the, way the inflation's going I think a woman's always going to have to work
it's just going to be an accepted thing.
There isn't going to be any of this, very few people will ever stay home.
that's all right with me, because I don't want to stay home
I think I'm just part of new stuff, that is just,
I think I would just go nuts sitting at home all day long.
I can't imagine how I did, because now I work all the time,
I work all week,
I can't imagine how I stayed home.
I think to myself, what did I do.
I think a woman thinks that a way, just like,
my daughter, there's no way that she can imagine herself married at the age that she's at now .
To her everything is, you've got to go through college, you've got to get a job,
when everything's set up, then you look for somebody that you want to spend the rest of your life with,
it is so far down the road,
I graduated high school,
the thing,
you got married
you had a family.
that's just the way it was,
Yeah .
that's like when my mo ,
I know when my mother's age it was always the kids and the family and everything had to come first
the woman stayed home and took care of them,
I like the way it is.
It's, being,
we're from Houston so it's not so hard for people,
you've been married three or so years
you don't have kids, it's okay, does.
you come to a place like Belton,
th ,
a lot of the kids here get married out of high school.
It's real small town,
i ,
a lot of people in our su ,
we're the only couple in our Sunday School class, except for one other couple, who are in their forties,
they can't have children, don't have children.
they can't imagine why we would want to have children. *
I'm going in there that's,
not everybody has to have kids,
I'd rather spend the time with my husband than, spending time,
it's your turn,
you know, that, even
whenever I was coming up and everything
we got married right out of high school, a year after I got out of high school ,
I didn't have kids for four and a half years
that was because I wanted to work
I wasn't ready for kids.
I think that's what it is,
I'm not either.
everybody thought, my gosh, what is the matter with her,
They're probably going, I bet she can't get pregnant
they thought that it was terrible,
when I'd tell them, I'm just not ready for children yet,
that, just get ready now.
you don't just get ready.
I was kind of odd because as a general rule the people that married during my time, they had kids within a year.
I just was not ready for kids.
I wanted to get out and work a little bit
I wanted to travel and stuff like that, which we did.
kids didn't fit in right then,
it's getting more and more like that where there's more and more couples
if you don't want the kids, then it's not the time to have,
I don't care what anybody tells you.
I think that more and more the attitude's getting that way.
that's like my daughter
now, she says that, maybe when she's thirty she might want a child then.
even though I'd like to have grandchildren, I can see her point.
Steve's mom God will take care of us when it's our time.
me it's okay if you don't,
it took every nerve in her body to say that because she's from a very, very old fashioned family.
she stayed home and raised her kids
she expected all of her kids to do that too,
their wives to be housewife and have dinner ready by five be there at every beck and call
I was raised totally opposite .
How we got together, I don't know,
my mother had six girls,
she worked too.
I guess I just
I saw how life was when she stayed home
it was rough,
it was hard,
it really is,
I know,
just like now, so much more now.
All my income goes for things like luxuries,
it really does.
Accept for what we give to my daughter, to, put her through college and stuff. *
the rest of it
we just buy things like boats,
we go on trips,
the more or less like entertainment stuff,
I think earned that though.
I feel like I have, because we're just a age now,
I'm not old
I'm older.
I got to stay home with my kids, which I really wanted to do,
now I could not go back and do it.
I really couldn't, I don't think I could stay home all the time and do nothing. *
I did stuff
to me it feels like I must have done nothing.
I think it's just the new way that people are thinking.
I think so.
I think it would be neat they could incorporate into small and large businesses both a built in day cares where the children were there in the facility but not necessarily right there with you.
more and more of them are,
I don't know if it is up there where you are
where I am, just all the hospitals,
they're getting day care.
Are they?
the reason they had to do this was because could not afford,
like you said if you had four kids, or even if you had two kids, you would be paying all your salary to pay for those two kids to go.
more and more of our hospitals, especially, over here are getting them
then some of the bigger companies,
it's mainly the hospitals.
I don't know if the T I in Dallas does or not.
nobody around here does, it,
too small around here.
All right.
I can go ahead and start and tell you mine
We're from San Antonio
that's where I grew up,
I was used to the heat, out here right now,
it gets to about
it gets very cold at night.
Monterey it's, right on the coast.
I don't know if your familiar with California coastline, *
south of San Francisco,
it's, really nice.
It's a big area for people to come from the different, countries, mostly like Japan, Germany and England.
they usually go to Carmel and vacation on the beaches,
pretty nice, year round.
in the evenings. And in the Summer,
it's stays pretty cold even, during the Winter, for as nice as it is.
we usually get a fog. right four o'clock
it kind of rolls in over the coast.
then it usually breaks back off again the next morning.
if you go just a little bit ways in, I'd say about a fifteen minute drive in towards Salinas,
the weather completely changes
it gets very hot and dry
the fog never makes it that far.
along here it's, different from the Texas type weather.
What's it like down there?
right now we're we're having the little bit of Spring that we have.
at least you've got some .
We don't have many seasons here.
It goes from Winter to Summer, usually.
Spring usually consists of a lot of rain. Especially thunderstorms.
one of those blow through tonight.
that's good.
I think we got the same thing in the forecast for the next two or three days.
Have y'all been having any heat waves or the ninety degree,
It's gotten up to, ninety a couple of times.
basically, it's been in the low seventies and eighties.
Women, that's good. For this time of year.
It's not really been too bad.
Usually it sneaks on into the nineties a little earlier.
do y'all have many bluebonnets and stuff this year?
quite a bit.
the season is just about over for that,
in fact we drove down to Corpus last week
there were still some paint brushes and bluebonnets down along the way.
I miss that .
(( )) drove through San Antonio
I spoke to somebody else this morning from San Antonio
they had,
we came back.
What day was that, Sunday evening,
they had a big rainstorm come through there, part of the same thing we're getting now, I guess.
that's real nice because I can remember two years ago that in about February the hundred degree weather started in San Antonio and just continued.
At least y'all are getting some rain up in Dallas.
I'm glad to hear that .
That's the second or third year in a row that we've had a real rainy Spring.
We had a pretty rainy Fall last year, as well.
Y'all weren't getting any of the strings of the tornadoes and stuff were you?
we've had a few down here, but not anything like Kansas.
this is the season for that.
pop up occasionally,
around here.
. Yeah.
I really don't miss all the heat there.
I'm getting acclimated to have the cool evenings
we get a bit of a relief.
I'm from here originally,
when it's July and August, I'm pretty well used to the,
hundred degree temperatures.
Yeah .
The biggest problem the weather and the rain in this area is the soil.
It's that black clay soil.
Is that what Dallas is,
it's not sandy like most of the state is,
it doesn't absorb the water real well.
once it rains a little bit, filled up and everything else just runs off,
San Antonio has that same problem when the rains come.
a complete mess, everything floods, all the under passes.
I didn't realize that Dallas had that same problem.
We have it,
especially as rainy as it's been in the last couple of years.
there's a section in South Dallas that's had a whole lot of flooding problems because of the rain.
we could use some rain up here.
We're in the bottom of the fourth year of drought,
up here
they had a pretty good early Spring
we got quite a bit of rain,
it wasn't enough to offset what they lost over the last four years.
they're still talking water rationing this Summer,
it would seem strange because in San Antonio,
we had lived out, west of San Antonio, in Castroville,
the water in (( Medina )) Lake and that area was really going down, that they were considering that they might have to do water rationing
I thought gee I'm so glad to get out of there and get up here to the California Pacific coast where it rains and everything has flowers
there's no problem with water.
I came here and found out they were in the, four year draught .
I said, this is pretty much like Texas.
it pretty much is in the middle of Summer.
They have rolling hills around here
they turn to golden dead grass,
for the majority of the Summer just because there is no water to keep them green.
it's a really nice area.
such a change from, Texas because I had grown up with, the heat,
used to essentially,
like you said, you have the cold Winter
you have the hot Summer Spring .
to come here, it's kind of the temperate weather all year round.
It's kind of like, Spring, I guess, year round,
in the Winter
it seems sort of like a San Antonio early Winter or Fall,
year round.
it seems like we only have two Springs or two seasons
that would be Spring and Fall.
We never really get any of the other ones.
it's a really nice, change of pace.
I guess I'd prefer that .
To the heat.
I really don't miss the heat.
we do a lot of,
when you do a lot of outside, running and stuff, it's just so much easier,
up here
you don't have to worry about the high humidity.
Does Dallas get high humidity?
is it pretty dry.
It's pretty dry.
We get some when it's this rainy,
it's nothing like, I guess, San Antonio Summers,
(( it's )) nothing like Houston.
(( )) East Texas, is a little more humid.
It seems like San Antonio is increasing in humidity over the years,
I had lived in San Antonio for about twenty years,
it just seemed like every year it just got
here right by the ocean,
it's not the same as Corpus.
Corpus, you get that humid salty feeling in the air.
here, the water is extremely cold, up here,
you can lay on the beach all you want,
if you want to go wind suffering or diving or swimming, you have to wear a wet suit.
And a thick wet suit at that, because it's just extremely cold
for some reason, because of the cold, ocean, water, the air is always cool.
It's never humid or sticky or salty feeling,
I really like that about this area.
we just hadn't expected it,
we were used to, what, gulf coast weather was like,
when we came here to Pacific coast weather.
It's just completely different
it's much nicer.
Probably the Pacific breezes make a lot of difference,
It does
the air doesn't feel anything like it does along the gulf coast region.
we like it
it's a nice change.
we'll be here a couple of years
we thought we'll take advantage of it and see what all the Pacific coast is like.
That's nice.
it's been good.
my wife's originally from Virginia
we lived there for about nine months
that was a real change for me.
I imagine.
Virginia, I imagine, gets real humid, doesn't it?
parts do.
over in the western edge in the mountains.
they have, of course, some pretty severe storms, Winter storms, snow and that type of thing.
they're so good about clearing the roads, that, it doesn't usually bother you very much.
Yeah .
Not like Texas where everything comes to a stand still.
Their Springs and Summers are pretty mild, too.
It never gets real, real hot.
I'll have to try that out because I had heard that North Carolina was sort of like that.
I've just never really been in that region of the country
I guess I'm going to have to try that area sometime and see what it's like.
a lot of people that are from that North Carolina region really like it.
they get the snow,
they said it doesn't really get messy
it doesn't really hang around that long.
I know that are from there, they always miss it
they want to go back .
Nothing seems quite as good.
as we were talking the weather came on
there's a flash flood watch and,
gee whiz.
more rain for the next three or four days.
I hope it moves up this way,
I'm sure it won't .
Maybe we can send you some .
we could sure use it.
you think that takes care of the time and,
I think that will do it.
I sure appreciate hearing how things are going in Texas and,
I enjoyed talking with you Lisa,
Good luck to you.
You, too.
We'll see you.
what movies have you seen recently, Valerie?
Let's see,
the last one we saw was THELMA AND LOUISE.
we haven't seen that one yet.
don't bother .
it wasn't that good.
from a woman's point of view it was very, chauvinistic as far as women go.
I don't think the general audience go for it.
The most recent one that, my wife and I have seen was the CITY SLICKER.
How was that?
That was excellent.
It was
That is one I've been dying to see.
just funny movie.
At the same time, it had a story line about people trying to find themselves.
There were parts that were sad.
it just ran the gamut of emotion.
it was just
How long did that movie run?
it's still on, to the best of my knowledge.
time wise, how long,
was it
two hour
less than two hours.
rented one recently that seemed to go on forever .
That always seems to happen when you rent them, .
this one, it was fairly long.
guessing probably an hour and forty five minutes, maybe.
excellent acting by Billy Crystal and
Was it, good.
Bruno Kirby,
who was the,
Jack Palance had an excellent part in there as the old cowboy.
we really enjoyed that.
I'm looking forward to seeing that one.
That was next on our list,
I think that, I can highly recommend that movie to see.
good deal
good deal.
Do you rent movies very often,
we generally rent a couple a week.
in order to get a decent movie to have on a weekend, you've got to rent it on Thursday.
They get
That's exactly right.
they get taken up at the store,
We will rent two or three movies on Thursday
with luck, you'll have one or two that are good.
Most of them are a coin flip .
we usually have, , we don't get out as much as we like.
We have two children,
we occasionally get out to the movies
it's a fun thing to do to get out and
be entertained for once.
Quite frequently, we have our grandchildren on the weekends
we'll try to rent something that they can see as well as something else that we can see
What ages are they?
Have you found
trouble finding movies for them
generally try to stay in the at least P G range.
oldest is nine,
the youngest is three.
He doesn't really pay attention.
The five year old doesn't have the attention span, either.
nine year old will watch anything that's on T V .
They have been doing that.
We've been waiting for good movie out this summer for the kids to see.
The last one they saw was HOME ALONE
they enjoyed that,
I missed that one.
My husband took the kids to see that one
my wife took, I think the kids to see that one,
we can generally find something at the store for them to watch.
that's a good deal.
we saw this movie,
PRESUMED INNOCENT was the one we rented,
let me think
last weekend.
if I have rented that one.
Harrison Ford.
Harrison Ford and, how does the story line go?
a prosecuting attorney
is murdered
we haven't seen that one.
he's trying to find it,
course, it's one of these with a twist where it looks like he's the one that wound up killing her
it's an extremely long movie.
over two hours long.
my wife the suspense movies.
I enjoy
them to a degree.
I think that's the one I wanted to pick up the other day,
my husband wasn't going to be able to watch it with me,
I thought I better save that one for another day .
Save that for another day.
I think he'd like that one.
You enjoyed that one, then.
something I think you would enjoy,
that's a good one to put on the list.
like most suspense movies,
what was
it was on T V recently, FATAL ATTRACTION.
It's one that, once you've seen it once you really can't see it again
you know all the story and who did what
and when it happened,
you seen one that's a suspenseful type movie like that, then not good for a second watching particularly.
huh .
At least I don't think so .
I don't think too many of them are anymore.
a shame,
I don't know,
we've watched WEEKEND AT BERNIE'S any number of times .
I know .
It's just slapstick comedy .
no .
Sit there and laugh,
my one grandson and I,
my wife can't understand it,
we like BILL AND TED'S EXCELLENT ADVENTURE
which is another funny one .
we've heard about that one,
we haven't seen that one either
. it sounds like you and your grandson like the same kinds of movies.
we like to laugh .
have a theory.
I like movies for entertainment.
I don't want to
go away depressed
from watching a movie.
I agree,
I agree.
Life's depressing enough .
That's for sure .
I've certainly enjoyed talking with you.
you, too, Jim.
Thanks for punching in
Have a nice weekend.
I hope you see a good movie soon.
Bye bye.
I guess we're going to discuss food and cooking.
Alright .
Do you enjoy cooking?
not all the time .
I'm kind of that way, too.
enjoy cooking when I have time.
I don't enjoy preparing three meals a day everyday .
about the same boat I'm in, too.
It gets kind of boring.
How big is the family you cook for?
We have four,
two of them are teenage boys,
I'll be hitting that fairly soon because all of mine are boys, too.
Are they? .
they get pretty particular sometimes in
what they want to have.
we have that problem too.
also, now it's just the amount that they eat.
It's just absolutely incredible .
oldest is nine
he already
he already does that .
Does he? .
I told him
he's going to have to get a part time job by the time he reaches teenage years
so he can eat.
That's true.
do you have any favorite things that you serve when you are doing a special meal?
Favorite recipes that you've come across or,
My husband and I, our favorite meal is,
we do it
for special stuff
celebrations we have steak
he does the steak
Out on the grill?
he marinates it in his special stuff
that he does.
it's real good.
I do sauteed mushrooms,
and asparagus.
that's our favorite,
that's sound good.
I love that.
My husband really likes seafood.
so do we .
I think that no matter what I do, I don't serve enough of it, really, suit him.
I didn't grow up eating that much seafood
I don't know,
it's just kind of not natural to me
I like it.
I don't know,
one of his favorite things is,
it's called seafood stew
like a you serve over rice.
it has oysters and shrimp and crab in it.
It's not the one with all the shells and stuff in it, is it?
That's kind of Louisiana I think
I don't know what that,
if you do that.
I don't see how you eat that,
I don't either .
one thing that's good is it makes large amount.
eat one
I freeze two containers of it.
Then that's just real quick to get it out and serve it over rice.
neither of my kids will eat it.
they eat a pizza or .
it defeats the purpose.
it really does.
One thing I've run across, recently though,
a friend gave me a recipe that I really for chicken enchiladas.
Have you made them?
My husband makes those.
Does he,
eat enchiladas.
I don't like the tex ,
I don't know,
I guess it's the texture, or something.
I don't like the taste of enchiladas.
everyone else in my family does.
done with a flour tortilla.
Is that what he uses?
I don't know,
I don't know what,
I don't know.
don't know what it is about the enchiladas.
I just,
I'm the only one including my Mom and Dad and my brother.
I'm the only one that
Isn't that something?
doesn't eat it .
my kids love it.
I was going to say, my kids both eat it.
I guess that's one thing that I particularly like,
I think it's good for company, too,
I've made it a few times.
you can make a lot at one time
when I needed to make something give somebody.
Yeah .
to take over to somebody's house
or something else.
I've got a chicken casserole that's like that, I've,
nice when it makes,
a lot because you can feed your own family
make this chicken casserole it makes a real big casserole and then another one that I freeze.
I give it to my Mom and Dad if I know we're not
going to eat,
what does it have in it?
It's jus ,
you can use chicken or turkey,
my Mom started making it right after Thanksgiving
using the leftover turkey.
it's rice and
when I do recipes I just throw stuff in.
real good about measuring
I do it to taste.
Sometimes those are the best ones,
it's just chicken,
as much as you want, torn up
rice and cream of chicken soup
and some mayonnaise and lemon juice
and celery
that's it, and some hard boiled eggs.
that sounds good.
that's it.
You just mix it all together and pop it in the oven just to, heat it through.
you sprinkle, toasted onion rings.
Those are good aren't they? .
On top of it for the crunchy.
that's it.
That sounds good.
it's filling because of the rice.
You cook the rice before you put it in?
I bet the mayonnaise in there a
it gives it extra
tang that would be good.
little tang.
I guess I would now use new mayonnaise free.
that cholesterol fat free?
That's really wonderful that they're coming out with so many
new things like that because I told my husband this summer, I love to eat, chicken salad and tuna salad
and stuff like that
basically it certainly a calorie, good thing except then you put your mayonnaise in there and spoil the whole thing.
I know.
now it's okay
you can even,
I used to just put a tiny bit in.
now, I'm just putting more and more in .
I don't like tuna salad unless it's got lots of mayonnaise in it.
to be like a calories per tablespoon
now it's like twelve.
I just think that's the best thing to have happened,
I'm just so excited about that.
we did the low cal stuff.
with my kids I don't,
they get enough sugar and
stuff anyway.
Mine are bouncing off the walls normally anyway.
Yes .
they don't need any added help.
when we're here at home, with sweets and stuff, we don't really do that much.
I do a lot of fruits
instead of the cakes and the candies and
stuff like that.
drink wise they have Kool Aid, milk or water.
when they go to their grandmother's house,
which is every weekend. It's a, it's a different
That's when they,
a different story all around.
As our family would say, pig out .
That's good.
That's exactly what it is.
one of my boys twelve, high cholesterol.
Have you ever found out
about your kids.
not yet.
my other one does not.
year or so ago he found out
he went on a fairly strict diet to try to get it down. And did!
He was able to get it down.
mostly hereditary because we really have never eaten high
things in cholesterol.
He's never eaten any eggs.
He's never had anything but skim milk
I've never bought butter
and things like that.
he just left for the doctor again
kind of back up.
he needs to be careful again.
we've really been talking about the foods, for him be sure to eat
The lower cholesterol foods and stuff .
he's eating an apple a day for the last two days .
all that kind of stuff does really help.
I think we've probably talked long enough
I guess I enjoy eating out, here and there,
eating at home
I guess I like restaurants.
sometimes it's fun to go out and just have a hamburger and french fries sort of a hamburger and french fry meal,
sometimes I enjoy going out having a formal meal.
sometimes it's nice to go out and have a salad.
Do you usually go out, with the children or without them?
a variety.
like to go sometimes without them
okay to take them along.
Right .
Sometimes I think we pay the baby sitter as much as paying for their dinner or lunches
we do a mix.
Sometimes it's really nice to be able to go out and eat with just my husband
it wouldn't even really matter which restaurant it was, just to, have a moment of peace and quiet without
little ones at the table.
I guess
I guess times, we even, there are times I even say, please don't sit us next to a table with other children,
this is our night out.
where do you like to eat?
we don't have any children
we tend to,
like to try all sorts of different things.
we're very attracted to exotic food.
we like Indian food, and Thai cuisine and, sort of gourmet Mexican and, things like that, as well as Tex Mex and Italian and, Chinese and things, things of that sort.
of course, we like to occasionally go out and get down and dirty with barbecue or hamburgers
or something like that, too.
we probably go out one to two times a week.
we're pretty much regulars at an restaurant.
which one do you like?
it's been a long time since we've been in there
it's good.
There's an Italian restaurant over by, Plano Parkway there,
is it Campari's or something?
I've heard about it,
I haven't been in there.
it's good.
been in there several times
for lunch one day.
their pastas were great.
one of the things, a good pasta means a lot to me.
like different kinds of food.
when we go out, I'm always looking for something other than the standard menu, even if,
it's a Mexican Restaurant, like something other than, the standard tacos, enchiladas, tamales and
You're brave .
once in a while things backfire.
we've gone for Romanian food and Lebanese food, and things like that
I'm not fond of some of those things
not in Plano of course .
I don't think so .
do enjoy going out
I'm pretty adventurous in cooking, too, which also occasionally backfires.
Even though traditional it can backfire.
I think we're supposed to say what will bring us back to a restaurant what attracts us to a restaurant.
How do you usually find new restaurant?
my husband's the ethnic fan.
I don't know.
You know what, the, D MAGAZINE
So do we.
check that and, the Friday section in the newspaper
the pull out section there.
They often do ratings of restaurants,
we often save those and ventured out on, from there, just for something that had a high rating.
We have found, a number of restaurants either through D the,
Friday paper and sometimes OBSERVER. Which my husband usually picks up.
And also through coupons.
When a new restaurant opens up, they usually send out coupons.
when they say, buy one get one free.
That's right.
It's hard to resist,
we'll go in.
very often we'll,
find a place that we like
we'll stick with it
once coupons. we'll stay there.
we've found probably half of our sort of regular restaurants through coupons,
and the other half newspaper reviews.
we use the coupons, too.
That's true.
That's true.
it's wonderful, particularly if you have more than two people and you've got say four or something like that.
It's very expensive to go out to eat.
is really one of our,
it's almost a hobby with us.
I think
sometimes I think going out to eat sort of a recreation.
change of pace
from, eating at home.
I guess, service when we go out
to have someone come and wait the table.
And clear the table and,
And do the dishes .
and do the dishes.
it's kind of nice to,
I always,
a waitress or waiter that waits the table, it's nice that they're attentive
it's not nice when they're too attentive.
we've had experience with that, too.
m , my sister, who also lives here in Dallas, tends to, chat with waiters and waitresses and become their best friends during the course of dinner, which drives me absolutely batty.
how we
(( )) ,
help their tip, may not,
What's your favorite restaurant?
I guess just in like to go to Souper Salads.
is always fine.
I guess if we go we like, the Street Cafe.
we've never been there.
that's supposed to be wonderful.
you would like it.
You'd like it especially it you're adventuresome.
we've taken people there several times
choice of things that are very different sounding.
I guess, it's, whether you call it Southwestern
we had venison
venison chili one time. Which was absolutely wonderful.
I guess it must be seasonal
we've been back,
I guess it's in the winter season
they've never had it
when we've been back,
you ought to try that.
it's very good.
I would probably like that.
One or two times in my life I've ever had venison, I've loved it.
I don't know people who hunt
supposed to be a wonderful place.
in Plano, we tend to go to Momo's
sometimes we'll go,
also go to Chili's and, Colter's Bar B Q,
Thai place that's over on Park that, we go to.
My husband particularly likes that.
We go into Dallas,
a lot we're both were from the Richardson, North Dallas area, up until fairly recently.
we'll go down to, Blue Mesa Grill, Mexican food,
that's good.
I've been there.
why don't you start
you probably have a job you need to get to pretty soon.
I'm already on my job
you are,
reached me at my job.
how do you dress for work?
dress for work, most of the time is, rather comfortable and casual
usually, slacks and a soft colored shirt.
The, thing distinguishes me a lot of the time when I have to dress real professionally for a meeting or something is I wear a clerical collar
and a suit and, all of that sort of thing,
when I don't need to dress up for meeting or a
service of some sort, I don't.
you're in a church there?
I'm working, this is my first morning to work down at our little church preschool,
they've told me to wear just something terribly comfortable because these are two year olds,
BIBLE lessons
they have all the things during the morning,
they still have snack time and play time,
I'm going to be dressing just in casual slacks and T shirts, probably not blue jeans, but little bit short of that, tennis shoes and play clothes.
around there you can probably wear, T shirts and other things,
around here, at this time of the year
we are into sweaters
I'm envious .
and, coats.
it's a beautiful day here,
it's in the sixties,
we still have a lot of hot afternoons,
it's supposed to be eighty five today,
you'll still see people,
kind of an in between change, that during the afternoons, because you just can't stand the sweaters,
in the mornings people are dressing for work in their sweaters because they just want it to be fall so badly .
wear coats
Did you?
as the day, warms up, we may go to light jackets,
I don't think there's an escape from light jackets.
I understand.
The wind will take away a lot of body heat.
are the people around you, dressing similar to you?
Very similar.
buy the lot of the wardrobe that some of the people in banking and that kind of thing do.
I'm not stuck with that
that's good.
kind of a, situation.
That's good.
As I say, unless it happens to be,
yesterday I had to dress up, and
and, be more formal because I had formal meeting at noon time,
then I can go home later in the day be a little more casual
that's wonderful .
if I have meeting of people that I know, I can be very casual in the evening.
my husband has to take the bus into Dallas, and doesn't return all day,
he has to dress,
he just really hates it,
they have the long sleeve shirts and the whole tie and the whole suit,
even when his job is not going to be with people all day long, he said it's just part of the uniform and the expected image that they have to dress.
the way it is
are dress codes
the people need to follow that.
I think, years ago, I used to be far more, committed to the idea a dress code
I've relaxed a lot more as I've gotten older and become more comfortable with myself.
I think that's good.
It's taken a long time to break away,
I understand.
now that I've broken away from it, glad I have.
another interesting thing on our end here is much younger I dress than my mother would have in her forties,
I will run around to the store in things, in slacks and tennis shoes,
You mean you don't need to wear little old house dresses any more?
she would not have even probably owned a pair of tennis shoes after she got out of high school,
she tells me I dress young,
that's okay (( )) .
That's a good idea,
that's a good idea.
there's not a lot more I can think of to discuss on clothing.
(( )) I guess this is what you call a natural end .
of shoes do they wear down there?
we wear,
of course, like I said, if my husband's going downtown, he's got the whole,
for as out here, just anything that the moms,
we all kind of have our own little dress code of just either tennis shoes or little loafers tights, and things that feel comfortable to us around our kids.
can wear pretty much that, although, tennis shoes are kind of out
I'm sure they are there.
almost every, every situation
I'm sure they are.
unless you want to look like a gook .
That's right,
I'm sure that true.
It's a lot different than working in a kids preschool.
A lot different.
That's right.
you all have a nice day there.
You too,
thank you for calling.
Thank you very much.
Bye bye.
Do you have any?
I have a Springer Spaniel,
her name is Thumper.
She's about seven or eight years old.
I got her for Christmas from my family, back when we lived in Nebraska.
I like to hunt,
I thought that if I had a good hunting dog like Thumper that, I could just go out and get all kinds of game .
Did it work? .
except we live in Plano, Texas now
for many years I had a dog that was part Springer Spaniel.
I just love them.
Her name was Molly,
she isn't alive any more .
We had her for, fifteen years, I think, my family did, and just loved her.
She was the went through two generations of children in my family and was always very gentle.
Do you have a pet now?
I have a cat now.
He just turned seven, also,
got him in Arizona
when I used to live there,
he is huge.
He is eighteen pounds.
What kind of cat is it?
I got him,
born in the wild, shed
and had never been in a building when I got him.
must be with some kind of desert animal, because he's very long and lanky,
he's a very tame spoiled house cat, now that I've had him for seven years.
Being born outside, you didn't have any problems house training him?
That's good.
he's great,
really spoiled, though .
he's really big,
lots of times he seems to get in fights,
when he was younger I think he started them,
now, I think he barely makes it.
I think he gets beat up even though he's big, because he's
pretty much overweight, and
And older .
comes home with a few scratches now and then,
we went to a cat show at the Plano Center here in town,
we thought that, we have a cat now,
we thought, if we ever get another cat, we'd want something kind of unique,
we kind of looked around,
they had everything from hairless cats to Siamese cats and Persian cats
we sort of fell in love with the, Maine Coon cats.
I've seen them.
They're huge.
I have seen them.
they were
I can't remember,
they used on ships and mousers
they're very nautical, too .
I'll be darned.
I didn't know that.
I just,
being accurate area of folklore,
I'm not sure.
that's interesting.
We kind of like,
my family didn't necessarily them as much as I did,
the Manx, is that the one that doesn't have a tail
it sort of has a bob tail.
I kind of like that, too,
I'd love to go to a cat show.
I'm cat lover.
I'd have a lot more cats if my boyfriend would .
He doesn't really like mine, let alone another one.
I'll tell you an interesting story about how I got my dog,
I suppose our five minutes will be up.
I work for a university,
I went to, Omaha, Nebraska to recruit students,
I had some time off in the afternoon,
I went to pet shop,
I saw these little Springer Spaniels
I decided, this would really be a nice dog to have,
when I got back home to Carney, Nebraska, I told my wife about it,
I said, this is just a,
I can just hear the dog crying for me now .
I know what you mean.
Christmas is coming up, hint, hint,
I had to go back the next week, as well as a bunch of other people from the university,
one of the people, that we went with, they were friends of ours,
we got to Omaha,
I decided I'd take my friend over and show him the dog,
I got over there,
she said, that's too bad, the dog has already been sold.
I didn't realize it,
this guy had somehow worked it out so that he got there a little bit earlier, bought the dog,
she was in the back room,
that night we had a reception for some of the, potential high school students or college students,
he had the dog the whole time in his room,
I had no idea.
we headed back to Carney that night,
the dog rode in the car
we stopped along the way and had a bite to eat
they left the dog in the car,
I guess while we were inside eating, Thumper just tore the heck out of the inside of the car,
finally we made it back to, to Carney
I guess we're recorded.
do you have any hobbies that you like to do?
Cycling, computers, backpacking, just about everything.
I generically have, millions of hobbies.
All right,
that's an interesting assortment.
My husband is into cycling.
In fact, he's out there right now
before it gets dark trying to get in his miles for time.
I'm not quite that bad.
I'm just a weekend cyclist.
handicraft type things, I think was the question.
Handicraft type things.
whittling or ,
just whittle away my life.
I c ,
Nothing like that.
do some things.
I've gotten into,
like to decorate things
I do sweatshirts and T shirts
I've gotten to where I selling them at craft shows and things.
that's pretty good.
I done fairly well at them.
I've had
few of my little hobby projects have totally bombed,
most ,
of them have worked out pretty good .
my only craft work is kind of like computers and, go off to the little computer club meetings,
it's kind of nice because I've made money at it, too.
Considering work for it a living,
I've got a couple of articles published.
It's neat.
does a computer club do.
I didn't know there were such things.
just all over the place.
They just get around talk techy else,
like half the members are really expert
the other half are really not.
we kind of help out the people who are really not .
in ,
into hacking or whatever .
I think I'm a hacker,
I'm not dial around randomly trying to break into computers type
that's one of those sports I don't go for.
that's kind of interesting hobby.
What else, did you,
you said you did cycling?
What was the other thing?
I belong to Boy Scout troop.
It beats paying United Way.
I just,
donate a whole bunch of my time to the Boy Scouts and have fun.
our two older boys were in Boy Scouts
my daughter was in Girl Scouts until just about a year ago
we've , done a fair amount of that in our spare time, also .
that's a great thing to do, really.
Have you been backpacking anyplace exciting?
just last weekend went to Davy Crockett forest
which is kind of out in east Texas.
we go to, places out in,
let's see
state north of us,
that state
that one.
that one.
That one.
Okay .
To the,
by Fort Sill there?
to that's out there.
Trying to think of the name of it.
no memory.
Have you gone, to Fillmont with the Boy Scouts?
I missed out this last year.
I wasn't able to get the time off, but maybe next year.
It's a good possibility.
I've always thought that would be a real fun thing to do.
When I was a kid, we'd do the equivalent thing in the High Sierras.
That was loads of fun.
your whole family like to do it,
for a vacation you'd go backpacking?
not quite because I'm not a whole family.
I'm just me .
You just,
you volunteer for the Boy Scouts,
I rent my kids .
huh .
It's better than, owning on them and making payments on them,
and, things like that.
Sometimes I think that might not be a bad idea .
you said you did it in the High Sierras.
do you ever, just vacation someplace where you strictly backpack?
not recently because, the Boy Scouts makes it so that I go like once a month,
there's, stuff that I want to do with Sierra Club and go down to Grand Canyon or something like that.
they have lots of tours where they get a bunch of people together and
off you go.
Which seems kind of reasonable because that means you don't have to take twenty thirteen year olds with you, which seems just a tad more relaxing .
other things that I like to do in my spare time, like swimming.
Which is in now.
I've done that
when I like something, I usually try to figure out how to make money off of it.
is it Mike?
Do you repair your own car?
I try to, whenever I can.
I've always been , I guess a product of a handyman father.
I tell you what, count your blessings because
Th ,
it really is good when someone can do some
things to a car themselves.
I'll tell you, over the years the cars get more complicated.
that's why I don't do as much as I'd like.
Because they've gotten complicated haven't they? .
One of my first cars was a fifty six Buick.
Which, after awhile I could, take apart in my sleep if I needed to.
Is that right?
got to be pretty straightforward to understand
now since then, the closer a car is to a fifty six Buick, more I know about it.
start getting into these Nissans and the like
I just can't keep up.
About all I ever,
I never was too mechanically inclined,
I used to always change my own oil and do the points and plugs and,
Course, they don't use, points anymore.
That's right .
they do still use plugs.
brakes, I've always done a lot of, changing brakes.
the alternator, and starter.
I don't anymore,
I have of times.
I understand.
My last car repair actually had to do with brakes
it's one I did not do myself.
I took the car, my,
I have a seventy nine El Dorado, took it to be inspected
the parking brake failed.
I got under there and messed with
it up
that didn't do the trick
I got there and tried to,
It probably slipped loose, didn't it?
that wasn't even eventually the problem.
I did everything that I could think to do.
eventually I brought it up to place called Just Brakes
it turns out that there's a,
the parking brake the rear,
disc brakes
the parking brake is a piston deal.
because the parking brake hadn't been used in so many years, the piston froze up.
they ended up having to pound it out.
one of them, they,
were able to get running, kind of oiling it and playing with it
the other one frozen solid,
I ended up having to buy one
it was just under two hundred dollars, believe it or not, to get all that done .
Y ,
it really wasn't quite, bad as you thought,
actually, think it was a lot of money,
don't, like I s ,
it was a lot of money,
it got to the point where I didn't know what was going on
You had to have the help, didn't you?
That's right,
that's right.
do you still do much work on them, then?
I do.
Th ,
was just the beginning of September
whenever I can, I do try.
I'd say this.
gotten to the point where I don't change the oil anymore. Only because,
Disposal is a problem.
that is one problem,
also fast oil change places, you just can't beat them.
That's true.
For sixteen bucks they'll
That's true.
not only will they change the oil in ten minutes, and do job as I can do, but they'll, lube, too .
quit doing that myself.
one of the main reasons was the disposal of the oil,
that's right.
I guess, i ,
the main reason that quick.
have you seen a new movie lately?
I am a student
I have, been actually watching more movies on video,
than being able to go out to see, movies
to see the FISHER KING catch ROBIN HOOD.
haven't seen either one of those.
are some of the shows that you have been able to rent though?
let's see.
I'm trying to just think of the ones that have come on.
WHITE PALACE which I thought was recently.
you're catching me at minds end here.
What have you seen recently? .
maybe have seen DANCES WITH WOLVES.
What did you think of that one?
Enjoyed that quite a bit.
I thought the cinematography was excellent.
the story was,
though it tended to be a little one sided
it was good.
just moved down, in fact, from South Dakota June,
that's when the movie was filmed,
the movie came out, we went,
my dad lives in the state capital, which is Pierre
it was filmed right outside of Pierre.
In fact, the big buffalo herd scene, a live scene.
there's a guy that has got buffalo farm,
he has got over ten thousand head of buffalo has got a little plane, we flew over it all a , looked at the buffalo,
it was really neat.
we are watching movie in the movie theater in Pierre
just every time I would start to get into the movie, and it was getting good
someone in the crowd would yell, hey, there's John Red Eagle,
they'd start recognizing people.
the extras or the,
I enjoyed it more watched it on video cassette than I did, in the movie theater because my attention would get diverted every time they'd say that.
I'd go which one could that be
start trying to focus in on people instead picking up the overall,
thought it was a good film.
you are right,
it was very one sided.
it's a side that hasn't been told. as far as, telling it from, the Indians as the good guys and the, the white men as the bad guys.
really thought about, all westerns that we have seen for years and years,
it's just, shoot the Indians,
they are always the savages.
In fact, I was watching WILD WILD WEST last night
it was a similar, situation with the Iroquois Indians attacking army fort.
it was an interesting movie.
have you seen PRETTY WOMAN?
I thought that was a good show.
a good movie.
it was just kind of a get away movie.
Kind of,
have any real social bearing
it wasn't really a comedy,
it was an enjoyable movie.
kind of like the STAR WARS
just something a little different,
yet believable.
You're bringing it,
I don't know,
mind lock about the movies I've seen.
I've seen PRETTY WOMAN and DANCES WITH WOLVES,
much of a STAR TREK fan,
are you going to see this next one that's coming out?
Have you seen the rest?
I think I've missed one.
I'm not sure,
I think I've missed one.
I actually went to the STAR TREK twenty fifth anniversary marathon that happened about a month ago,
they showed all five in a row.
Was that here in Dallas?
they had it everywhere,
every major city had one theater that did it
we had one here in Dallas.
they did it in Houston,
really good to see all the movies and how the story developed,
the thing that I didn't realize is that if you watch the movies in a row, time wise they happen one after another
and just time between them,
you can watch the characters develop,
I said Arlington, Texas because the other day, I was talking with somebody
he was in Arlington, Virginia .
that's the only one I've got now for this area.
anyway, we've got a easy subject.
we do.
You go ahead first, if you'd like.
let me think here.
I haven't been watching much T V lately .
I used to.
you get so busy.
one favorite soap opera.
I still watch
I tape because I'm not home .
let's see,
that's GENERAL HOSPITAL,
at night, till almost nine o'clock
I know.
when my kids get in bed
then I watch,
what do I watch at nine o'clock.
Let's see,
Tuesday nights I guess, we try to catch a couple of the shows that the kids like.
Are they little?
I have a seven year old and a ten year old.
they're pretty young.
we usually catch, FULL HOUSE,
what's the one comes on after that.
It's a new one, ,
I don't know,
my kids are older
know some of those shows now, like I used to .
other than that, I watch KNOTS LANDING on Thursday nights,
for pure entertainment, nothing else.
like the comedies.
They're just light, too.
I have to watch MURPHY BROWN
I really like,
that is a good one.
I make a point of
That is.
if I'm home on Mondays, then definitely watch her.
I love that
I really like COACH.
I think good, it's just a scream.
he's a good actor.
He really is good.
he's probably playing himself.
Half the time you see these people on an interview show, just like they do in their parts .
yeah .
I saw him on JOHNNY CARSON once
he acted about the same .
he could very well be .
do you watch much T V,
I watch more now because, had been going to school for years and have really been too busy
this semester I'm only taking one course
I see MURPHY BROWN and COACH and THE WONDER YEARS.
I just make a point of seeing those.
I never see that.
I've got a friend that says that is just wonderful show.
it's fabulous.
Really, you should never miss that.
are just gems of shows.
really, fabulous in every way .
night is that on
that's Wednesday at, seven thirty.
Wednesday at seven thirty,
Wednesdays go to church choir,
That's my one night out and about,
your husband could tape it for you sometime.
I should get him to do that.
Just so you get the idea.
It wouldn't take,
Because I know,
Wouldn't take much to get hooked on those .
I watch those.
Are there any new ones this year that came out that you like
I haven't,
we started watching NORTHERN EXPOSURE.
it's not really new,
it's still kind of new.
How's that?
I haven't seen that.
I like it a lot.
It's real different.
In fact, they never thought it would be a hit.
they'll have some things in there like supernatural, or something,
somebody will see a figure from the past that nobody else does
it sounds weird,
it's very, unique show and very well done.
Excellent actors.
I'll have to watch for that.
guess we just,
it came on after something we used to watch
I guess we just kept sitting there
we make a point of watching .
I can't take all these shows on because next semester I'm not going to be able to watch hardly any television.
huh .
then, it will be mostly reruns, I guess .
by the end of February, the way they do it nowadays.
we used to watch a lot of DESIGNING WOMEN,
I haven't seen that much lately.
I've seen that.
Since they got rid of, Delta Burke and,
best one?
brought on the new ones.
Was she the best one on that old show?
she was just funny.
She was really funny.
her character was good.
I don't know that it was her in particular
but just the character.
they had a big fight on that show, didn't they?
They were all accusing each other of everything in the world .
that was awful
who knows still, what
I know,
you never will, probably.
I think the latest soap opera for people is the Kennedy trial for those who have cable.
I know.
I don't have cable.
I told (( )) ,
we don't have that station either,
I haven't been able to catch any of that,
just what little we caught on the news.
It's just as wild as any soap opera, from what I hear on the news.
I know it.
I think he's guilty as the devil.
I don't see how he couldn't be,
I know,
what's in it for her.
There's never anything for you to go to trial as a witness in a case like that.
that's right.
Because you know they tear you to shreds, especially those rich
they said
high powered lawyers.
this lawyer is unbelievable.
they said she held up so well yesterday.
I know,
everybody was saying that
in the paper said it
It should be interesting.
the NATIONAL ENQUIRER says .
I was reading that in the supermarket line.
I never have the nerve to buy the thing.
do you watch any,
Says he,
any sports or anything like that
I don't care anything about that.
I don't either.
watch it on T V,
I like the ice skating,
occasionally, some ice skating will come on, on a Sunday or during the Olympics
I always watch that.
I think it's so beautiful.
I like to catch the gymnastics sometimes, too.
that's good.
I suppose we both have credit cards.
they seem to be a part of life .
how do you use them?
I do use them.
I have a few favorites that I use more than others
I try to keep my balances fairly reasonable.
could probably pay them off any month if I wanted to.
occasionally they can get out of hand and get higher you start using more than a few
they all can build up.
I think they're handy.
I just get,
I don't carry a lot of cash with me
I hate writing checks
when you go shopping.
do you use credit cards?
I use a few.
watched my grandmother go into debt
on them
I guess my
my mother learned from that
I guess she taught me to be very, very careful with them.
basically, I just keep them,
I use them so that I build up a credit rating,
otherwise, I generally,
my husband, it turns out,
I've just been married seven months,
he has the same habit
we just keep a few
That's good.
few of the major ones, and then use them once in a while for something,
we always pay it off right that month
so that we don't pay any
That's wonderful.
service charge.
that way we keep out of debt
we keep on top of what we're spending.
the interest rates in credit cards is so high now
compared to what you're savings is bringing.
It's really, I guess ridiculous to let them keep building.
that's what I feel.
I know some people can carried away with them and let them get
out of hand.
It's really easy, just to forget, that charged that or charged that.
I try to keep all my receipts and keep them in someplace where I know that the bill's going to come,
sometimes I forget
a bill will come in
I'll think, no
I didn't know it was going to be that high.
so far, pay it off every time
that's good.
for a Visa that has a lower interest rate.
It seems that some of them have gotten higher
I saw on T V, they had a program on, credit cards
they're supposed to,
I don't know if it was Tennessee or Arkansas or other state had a Visa card that was the lowest one in the country.
didn't write it down at the time
I went and looked to see what my visa was
I think it's eighteen percent or something
think I want to find something that has a lower
Have you ever used Discover card?
I haven't.
I'm not even sure what their interest rate is since I pay it off
Is that the one from Sears?
I think Sears originally
put it out,
pretty well taken all over the U S now.
I've haven't found many places that don't take Discover.
there's no annual service fee, which is good.
Okay .
they also give you, they say cash back, at the end of the year.
For the amount that I charge, I get two dollars back or something
if you use credit cards a lot you probably get more back.
they give you money back for using your credit card.
That's it.
I didn't know that.
I think the service charge is pretty low, too,
I'm not sure.
Sears was one of the few department stores that never would take any other credit cards.
I worked at Sears for over ten years
it was only a Sears card that they would take
until I guess they decided to join the club and come up with that was
now they'll take the Discover,
I still don't know if Sears will take Visa or Mastercard.
I never did apply for a Discover card.
I just figure with the Visa and
American Express, I probably have an,
I can do enough damage with those two.
I think it's best to keep the number down
that you have.
I've got some that haven't even used at all, past few years
I probably wouldn't be able to use them.
do like my Dillard's,
I have to admit that's one of my favorite places to shop.
I do use Dillard's probably any of the other department stores.
Do you have anything else to say?
not too much more about credit cards .
Okay .
I don't think I do either
it was good talking to you.
Good talking to you Beth.
Good luck.
Have a good evening.
You, too.
Bye bye.
got any problems on Mockingbird with crime
is that a crime free zone there?
I don't think there is any such thing,
as a crime free zone any longer.
I'm afraid you're right.
one evening I decided to retire early and heard sirens and noises and thought, something's happens on Mockingbird and then heard yells and screams
the next thing I know there are policemen all around my house.
they had stopped
and caught one of the men in the hedge
the other one was on the roof in the back.
By your house?
my house .
my goodness.
I'm very much aware of, crime in the cities concern about it.
got to be a frightening way to
It was.
spend an evening.
kept hearing noises
knew that I was not going to sleep until I got up and went out and checked the garage,
I got and walked garage.
There was no one there,
I wanted to be sure.
Is Plano beginning to experience kinds of things that are more common in the metropolitan, in the
urban area?
too bad.
I think, as any city grows up, you get the hoods and the and
everybody else
in there,
I think,
fortunately the sirens and everything we hear are over on Spring Creek,
here sixteen years
now can tell the change, for sure.
I was thinking, if you've been there that long, you've seen Plano grow
from what was really small town to a city.
with all the, Central Expressway,
with all the stores and the, restaurants and the
convenience stores and all that kind of stuff, it's just prime pickings for people driving by.
I was appalled to read the other day about the, shooting on the tollway.
too far from you, neither.
it's farther west of me.
I live over near White Rock Lake.
it was really frightening to,
think that, it's not even safe to drive onto the tollway,
or for those people in the tollbooth.
I never thought about someone robbing those,
apparently, they do.
I don't know, how a few bucks can be worth shooting somebody
it just doesn't seem possible, does it.
It's stupid, isn't it.
I guess when people do those things, they don't really give a thought of the consequences at the time.
It's, looks like
easy pickings
away you go, right.
I think the drugs play a tremendous part in, the theft and violence that we see.
I think you're right, although I think that may be an excuse for people, too.
is convenient, isn't it?
I didn't know what I was doing.
That kind.
just like the old alcohol idea
have haves and have nots, you're always going to find people that are too lazy to figure a way to earn money and find it's easier if you can get a gun to go out and hold something up
than it is to figure out a way to legitimately earn the money.
I work in South Dallas for the Dallas School System.
Where do you work?
do you know where Oakland and Hatcher are?
I think I do.
Amelia Earhart, School there?
this is over near Lincoln High School.
not far off South Central Expressway.
That's a pretty rough area there, isn't it?
It is a pretty rough area.
We're over by Fair Park.
my goodness.
you watch the people.
There are marvelous B M W s and Mercedes and Cadillacs and everything parked all up and down the street outside these awful taverns.
the kids see that
they know that they can earn several hundred dollars in a day running for, drug dealers if,
Definitely that area, big time.
Big time there, sure is.
It surely is.
I don't think I'd go to work without a bulletproof vest on myself (( )) .
I'm careful.
Gee ,
that's the worst neighborhood in the whole
it's, a little scary sometimes
I manage the,
credit cards .
I'll tell you what, can't say a whole lot about credit cards because I, tore mine up.
Is that right?
know pe , I know some other people that have done that.
I got in some credit cards
I, basically just got rid of all of them.
have couple.
I have a, gas card use just for gas and
huh .
one that I use just for emergencies
we have friends that did same thing.
kind of overextended and borrowed and borrowed
finally they realized that abusing them and weren't going to get out of the hole
they just cut them all up except one they kept for emergencies
they're still paying away to get out of debt.
I know it.
I did just the opposite.
guess sort of followed in my, parents' footsteps.
I have quite a few of them.
use them continually,
basically never charge anything I don't have the money in the bank to pay for.
I always pay them off totally every month.
is that right?
good policy.
they're just a convenience for me.
I don't have to get cash out of the bank,
I don't have be writing checks
sometimes I wish I had them,
in most cases, I'm glad I don't
because I don't have the control you have .
I wish I did,
I don't.
I just don't want to get into that situation again,
you don't have anything transferring, just a little signature,
so what, (( )) .
that's it.
even with my gas card
I find that I'll go in to get some gas
I'll end up buying, candy and drinks and
sweets and whatever,
at the end of the month get a bill
I'm thinking
what did I get,
that costs so much.
there are inherent limits there,
run up a few thousand dollars for that,
where ,
W ,
the thing that probably helps me most doing that is really, not so much discipline,
you have sort of a discipline in general about finances,
I hate rates so badly,
their interest rates so badly
Isn't it,
that's unbelievable.
that I,
let me ask you this.
How, how old are you?
I'm, thirty three.
Thirty three?
Thirty two,
excuse me.
You'll be thirty three this year?
You want to be thirty two as long as you can,
It's coming.
know what you mean about the interest rates. unbelievable.
irritates me so much I refuse to pay them interest
my wife recently, decided she had to go to Brazil and was going to take off
she's from there and
and, didn't really have the money,
she could pay it off,
sort of reluctantly let her put it on credit cards,
she's paying it,
I just won't do it.
she's paying, what per month, forty, fifty dollars per month in interest
I just,
I just refuse to give it to them.
If I need to borrow that kind of money, I'll go to the bank
you bet.
even, heard some people that have applied for credit cards with much less,
and have paid off their,
higher interest rate,
cards and just sent them back,
guess negotiating there, too,
I heard,
on one of the local talk shows here, they had somebody on said, what you can do is, call,
if you've got a pretty good
you can call card, wherever you got your card from and tell them, hey, either drop my rates
or drop my,
annual fees or I'll just go to somewhere else.
I might,
a pretty good
history with them
they're more than willing to do that.
I might try that because have one card that I've had for about, I don't know, nine or ten years.
in fact, what this guy,
he wrote a book on it
he says tried it of his cards
he's just told them, can get this card from this bank at this rate
yours is at, eighteen or nineteen percent.
It does not make sense for me to do that
if you won't drop my rates, I'll just go ahead and send you back your card
I'll go somewhere else and get it.
for me the big thing, annual fee
I just refuse,
I won't get any card now,
got a good rating
I've got,
to pay an annual fee.
The only one I actually pay on is this one
my name is Dolphene.
I live in Texas.
my name is Pat Johnson
I live in too.
I work for T I,
you also?
I live in Dallas.
I work for the Dallas school system.
you ready to begin?
We might as well.
I understand we are doing care of the elderly, right?
how do you feel about putting someone in the nursing home?
I don't think that any of my relatives would really like to go there.
believe, if I, am in a position, when my mother gets to a point where she needs special care that I will be able to just bring her into my home
and my father also, have someone go into their home, look them.
That way.
I would find it very difficult, to, place my father or my step mother
in a place like that. Particularly, since I know how they feel about it.
how they feel about it.
it is like they feel, like somebody had thrown them away .
I do think that there are some significant kinds of things to to look for, if you are faced with placing someone.
In a place like that, aside from the cleanliness and the medical care that is offered
and such
attitude of staff makes such a tremendous difference.
I have a a friend who is partly paralyzed and is in a nursing home
and has no family who, could care for her.
I know that the cheerful pleasant people who treat her kindly make all the difference in the world in how she feels about, her situation.
another thing to think about, on the positive side of the nursing homes here,
I use to work in one of the offices in a nursing home
I got to see a lot of the things that they did
had a lot of crafts
they had a lot of games
they, get together and do all sorts of things
of people that are in there are nice and friendly to everybody
then there are others that are,
it is just a job
they just
want to go in and do what they have to do and get out go home.
attitude of the staff as you said is really
very very important.
I think it would matter too, kinds of, disabilities that the nursing home accepts.
Because there are some, who poor things, don't have, any real grasp on reality any longer.
they may be ambulatory,
they tend to behave like
that would be very difficult I think for an adult who wasn't in that situation to to have to deal with on a daily basis.
it is like, the one that I worked in, you would see some of them just like in wheelchairs all day,
they would just roll themselves around all over the place
they would enjoy enjoy themselves with activities
you would some of the others that distant from the other group
they they just didn't participate together with the others
because they had I guess, slight mental disabilities and things like that.
do you call Alzheimer disease and stuff like that
they weren't really together with the rest of them, when they got together for such activities.
that can,
Frank, what, type of, budget do you or your family have?
I don't know that we really have a budget.
I have a set amount save.
there is way,
budget our money apparently.
my wife, to do shopping with every couple of weeks
we allot each of us so much money per week for our personal stuff, gas, and things like that
besides that have a set amount that I save every month.
That's, sounds like probably a tighter controlled budget than what I have .
I am single,
I guess, I don't know if that's an excuse for not having a tight budget,
I basically,
Really don't need to.
I don't need to.
I am the only that I have to keep track of
it makes it a little bit easier.
That's right.
also try to save a certain amount each month as well
I have an idea of what my expenses are
I am pretty consistent from month to month
I am pretty well aware of it without actually having to maintain a budget for it.
I found that, things, as I have gotten older,
I am in my fifties now,
before we use to have a very strict budget,
I had four kids
we planned out how much we were going to spend for food and how much this and for that.
Kind of anticipate how much things were going to be.
I guess one interesting aspect of the budgeting I do now is that areas of my check book.
For instance, there are certain things that I know come up, every so often.
Every six months I have to pay car insurance.
every six months I have to pay my taxes.
I take a set amount.
I've got a money market account that I do a lot of saving in
I also have got a checking account besides that,
what I do on my money market account, my taxes for instance which amount to an average of two hundred and twenty dollars a month. I will just take two hundred and twenty out
I put it in parenthesis.
I take it out of the right line total
and put it in parenthesis in there and let it build up.
Every month I add two hundred and twenty dollars to it.
Then when the tax bill comes in I've got that much set aside.
I guess that's a way of budgeting.
I guess I kind of do a similar thing. More, medium or longer range.
I just have a maybe a targeted amount that I will save for.
I am,
probably within a year I would like to buy a new car.
I kind of have amount in my mind
I am making every effort a little bit away and increase the amount that I need for a down payment or whatever.
cars are definitely something that you have to figure into your budget. Not only for buying them, but for keeping them on the road too.
we've got two cars.
My wife has a car
I like to drive pick up truck.
we are on a schedule where I try every, three or four years buy a new one.
I am constantly making car payments,
I figure that's got to be the story of my life is making car payments.
I get one paid for
actually I am saving up for another one besides
kind of a never ending thing,
schedule those things so that, paying for two at the same time
I guess is what I am saying.
Have you thought about, leasing?
I have thought about it,
leasing wouldn't,
I don't use it for my business.
I see.
My wife uses hers just for pleasure
I use mine just to go back and forth to work
which is only ten miles away
if you are rolling it over every three years,
it might be advantageous to do that.
I guess.
typically, purchase your own car you tend to make, the best returns after you pay it off.
Of course, the longer you keep it beyond that point, the more profitable it is to own it yourself.
you're right.
I have, been know to keep trucks or cars for ten or twelve years,
I find that after about four years they kind of start going down hill
you got to put put stuff in them
That's right.
mine's, seven years old
I think last year a rough year for it.
I had a number of expenses .
I am hoping that most of them were just kind of,
as you get to a certain number of miles, you have to get everything replaced, brakes, shocks and all that.
I just went through that whole set last year.
I hope that I only have a slow period before I do that again .
Those things can really upset your budget come in.
it's nice to have a little bit set aside unexpected shall we say.
So that it doesn't, kill you all in one month.
What line of work are you in?
Your turn.
we keep a budget to an extent.
we were really forced into keeping a budget because paid once a month which forces some, restrictions
you need to make sure all your bills are paid.
about yourself?
I have to say I really don't have a budget.
Both my wife and I, grew up in, families of rather modest means
our family income, at this point, is comfortable. Upper middle class I guess you might say.
we're both so, frugal that, we really don't need a budget,
We just sort of invest the money and go on vacations and always never seem to have any money problems which I guess is a comfortable thing.
I guess that really is sort of, keeping a budget,
You stay within your,
we stay within our means
within your means.
don't do it, by conscious effort.
It just sort of happens automatically.
we just moved to California
the cost of living here in California is, I would say rather pathological .
Yes .
housing prices are, from four to ten times more expensive than, they were where I came from in, Dallas.
you moved from Dallas to San Francisco.
That is a hugh difference.
that presents real shock .
actually our standard of living has gone down somewhat since we've moved to California
you have good sour dough
it's a beautiful place to live .
It's God's country.
one way you know that is that only God can afford it .
. *
budget is not a problem for us.
at least it hasn't been.
It be at this point.
up until this point it really hasn't been .
When I, was in, undergraduate school a long, long time ago, I, noted that the for engineers in my discipline, was like six hundred ten dollars a month or something like that.
huh. *
I noted at that point that what my salary was that I drew then I would be making almost twice as much as my father made during his best year ever.
I stopped worrying about money.
never have worried about money since then.
a system too.
Sometimes, it's a bit of problem, because I guess I don't really manage my money the way I should.
I suppose I've lost money on not taking good advantage investments
then again, you said are able to take trips.
you do, obviously, have enough to live on
I guess you're indirectly budgeting.
just the fact that you said you're both very frugal, in spending the money.
a form of budgeting I would think .
kind of a strange topic for two people who don't really have a budget to talk about budgeting and how they manage their money.
I guess we're both lucky in that regard then.
How big is your family?
one on the way.
I see.
my wife,
having one on the way September.
you get ten children though, you may have,
I think it's just going to be one.
all right .
How about yourself?
I have two kids.
nine and one thirteen
they are beginning to be a budget problem but, have not been really point.
Do they budget at all?
do you have them on an allowance?
I basically give my son ten dollars a week
I put half of it in the bank
I him the other half in cold cash.
he has a teller card so he can, with the money that I put in the bank.
at least, it isn't, burning a hole in his pocket.
If he wants to use it, he has to go get it
that usually ,
(( )) Capital punishment, I guess, out in California had discourse in the paper.
apparently, executed anybody since nineteen sixty seven, I believe.
as far back as I can remember .
that's before
my time actually.
were, just started, we lived in Redwood City when we were out there.
we found that, it was a very liberal kind of community.
really feel the law enforcement community, puts these people behind bars
lawyers, these lawyer groups get together
I think, extend beyond the normal, appeal process. and just drag guy, ultimate, demise out for ten or fifteen years.
think there's something that has to be changed in the system do that.
I think capital punishment, was probably stringent enough
I think the appeal process is really getting in the way.
you feel as though there should be, more, you might say transgressions that would be enforceable capital punishment?
I think that currently the way the law stands isn't so much that the laws are enforceable or not,
it's more they're not enforcing the death penalty itself.
It's at that point where they're saying here going on death row
you'll stay there for twenty years.
nothing is being done about it.
the laws exist and (( )) are frequently upheld in Appeals Court just because of technicalities and because of maybe small little holes that their defending attorney can find.
really getting out of hand (( )) in many states.
the term technicality (( )) .
The law enforcement community,
separate the difference between somebody who is being set up in which, grievous acts are done to, to get somebody into situation where they're going to be guilty a crime.
whether the rights of that individual impuned.
whether made a non, a noncritical error, though be it not the right way to do it
merits of the case in terms of,
the guy was a law breaker, as being supportive.
at this juncture
not sure, what constitutes technicality.
what all hearings are about
that's what all these, court cases are about.
our glorious, mayor here in Washington is six days away from getting the can
tried to appeal his conviction.
it didn't work.
be that as it may, everybody who got enough money will pump the appeal process dry.
the old days, and say round about times of battle of Hastings, and the (( villages )) if you were a transgressor, either, drove you out in the woods or you became a ward of somebody
were his slave.
if he didn't like what you did, he killed you.
pretty effective.
it's not good for civil rights, I guess,
it's pretty effective in that, you've got to get along in the community
if you don't you'll perish. Either by the hand of your master or by being pushed out in the woods.
man has gotten more complicated so all of the, imaginations to, protect him being, dumped on by, civilian authority in criminal actions, especially, murder cases and that sort of thing.
seems as if in the past typically there have been a lot of cases of people being wrongly tried or wrongly punished,
the whole idea behind the current criminal process system is to protect those who (( actually )) didn't the crimes, albeit it seems that we are failing ultimate goal because there are times when people who are guilty are getting off.
for instance, there's a case a few years back where, who's was going to trial for murder, was let off because of a technicality in that. did not read the defendant their rights.
where his,
old evidence was there, the witnesses were there, everything was conclusively pointing to this individual yet ,
a lot of companies now using, drug testing paraphernalia and drug testing situations root out either, elementary or intermediate or advanced, drug users.
I know government drug tests to coming into government.
I quite frankly, don't see anything wrong with it.
I guess I'm not a good civil libertarian.
feel if a drug user you have a hidden agenda that's difficult unless you really go into a deep background.
Of course,
being involved in my organization, have deep background checks
sometimes, drug use escape that.
I have absolutely
no compunction about, using any and all means
putting that guy therapy to, break this, activity.
Of course, if he's fallen in love with drugs
there isn't anything
getting stoned or high the only thing in life that seems to be meaningful, then maybe there is no hope .
What's your, feeling?
probably a little more the other direction.
I guess, mainly because,
there's two sides to it I guess.
one is that, if you're coming to work under the influence of any sort of drug, alcohol, whatever, or, even if it's smoking, inhibits, your ability to function, then think I don't have any problem at all with testing that individual, on the spot.
I guess I feel more like whatever you're doing in your own private life is your own private business.
I guess part of the reason there is because of the fact that, things like drug laws seem to come and go.
we had prohibition for awhile
we didn't have prohibition.
we've had, I guess, laws against, various other forms of drugs for the last what sixty or seventy years, I guess.
Maybe a little longer.
I think, the first morphine laws like ninety, or nineteen ten or nineteen five, something like that.
years or so.
hard justify what like, basically a breach of the on something that may or may not stand as a law, fifty years from now or even twenty or ten,
who knows.
the thing of it is tha , tha ,
prohibition certainly didn't last.
that, that is, many respects, I think, an over simplification.
think th , th , there's so much criminal activity, that people go into support drug habits.
you got to look at prohibition though.
You had the same problems there, right?
support drug habits with things like, burglary prostitution or stuff like that,
it goes back to that, again,
if you look at prohibition. because it's illegal, it costs more.
If it was legal,
face it you can buy pharmaceutical grade cocaine for what, ten or twenty dollars an ounce.
I must admit that,
clearly if you're into coke and all you want to do is, snort your brains out all day long, if it was legal, you could do it real cheap
you'd be a menace to nobody but yourself as long as you stayed at home and did it.
must admit that the production costs these drugs zippo compared to the street market costs the costs to society,
that's why there's, people dealing it because there's money in it,
There's ridiculous amounts of money.
I, I think that, being in law enforcement, th , they, I, I probably have a kind of a draconian, Philistine attitude toward it.
really feel as though the interdiction effort
as soon as get rid of one goon that's involved in drugs and tha ,
interdiction's hopeless.
one will jump up.
there's no way you're ever going to win that.
The tighter you squeeze, the more the price goes up, the more incentive there is.
that's a losing (( fight )) .
as soon as we wind up, for,
if we can just destroy the market by destroying the demand
want to, stoned
don't see that,
It goes back to, on people.
can you force somebody to be a good productive citizen?
I don't think you can.
raised with being a very strong Bible work ethic
I'm one of these, ten, twelve, fifteen, twenty hour a day type people.
I can really relate to
everybody ought to do their own share,
I don't have any, love lost for people who are on the public dole just because they're too lazy to get a job or that kind of stuff.
you're with a big company or a big organization, a lot of times, the benefits are good
the pay is regular
sometimes you don't get tuned in to what's going on.
think the biggest benefit or the biggest benefit other than wages that anybody could get dealing with a large company is to be in a situation where get to know what's going on.
maybe probably the toughest thing in the whole world do.
your feeling about benefits?
What sort of benefits would you like to get from a big company.
since I'm kind of on older side, I just feel like, when I start talking about benefits, medical benefits .
husband works for McDonald Douglas
are so excellent,
that's really great.
I work for,
they don't let me know really about anything that's going on.
Even some of the immediate things that I need to know, I don't know it until the next hour
all of a sudden we know we've got changes made.
We're changing departments.
We're changing policies.
We're changing doing other kinds of things. Which to me disturbing .
I feel like if, don't necessarily need to, be involved since I'm pretty much on a low level,
right there.
I'm pretty much on a low level as far as, the company is concerned.
do kind of like to know what's going on and what's happening
I think I can be a better and more effective employee I
th ,
had a little bit more information along that line.
I (( )) I work for the government
actually I work for the F B I.
my gosh.
don't, there's lots of things that we don't get told. For good reason.
basically, there's lots of things we should know about projects.
I'm an engineer.
a COTR.
sometim ,
worked in the same lab with a guy
we didn't really know that much about each other's projects for two years.
we should have,
now collaborating.
(( ))
(( )) ,
for two years we didn't. which was kind of stupid.
our organization is doing something else on Monday.
having little tables put up in front of (( )) lab in the hallways
the other employees are going to come around and see what sort of things we do. Which I thought was kind of interesting
that is interesting.
of thing.
can tolerate a lot of problems if you understand what's going on.
of course management has a hard time distributing or getting the word out to the people who must know.
if you don't really count. If you're not part of the program you might not get told for months.
you might, if it doesn't impact you directly. Or if your management doesn't think that.
regard to benefits. decent, benefits like retirement and that sort of thing.
In the private sector I would think that one of the major, situations, especially when you reach, mid fifties, keeping a job until you retire.
A ,
engineers baggage as they get older, most companies.
it's very much like the military,
it windows out.
think boy, I'm getting more money
I'm getting more responsibility,
I'm doing this.
as you climb up that tree, pretty soon branches get smaller on the top of the tree
pretty soon somebody falls off.
fallen off twice in the private sector.
I can get up,
I know.
seems to scary, Because you think of,
my son's eighteen right now
he wants to go into engineering.
the branches of engineering that he wants to go into is now kind of open
he's interested in, basically, three different areas.
it's difficult for me to try to give him any kind of advice or to advise him or anything like that.
He needs to do his own course of investigation see what he can do because who knows what's going to happen in another thirty years.
in thirty years it becomes pretty critical.
my, brother in law sixty.
He's not ready to retire
his company is, closing up.
because of the defense cutbacks and all that kind of stuff. And all the nuclear and stuff which is was working on. He's getting cut back
he's not ready to retire .
he may be retired.
Budgeting activity in our household (( kind of an informal kind of situation.
actually what happens my check gets automatically deposited.
I don't even have the glories of bringing home my check anymore.
It just gets deposited.
wife, looks at all those bills that come in
all those people are counting on me to have my wife pay them.
really don't have a formal budgeting situation.
Every time I've ever tried one, I've just got wrapped in my inertia.
I've just decided not to pursue it.
your budget situation?
actually, had a couple of different situations.
My current one has been the most successful.
at a certain point in life
was an alcoholic.
we got divorced back in the mid seventies
that left me with three teenagers.
actually that kind of situation is just wonderful for budgets.
It certainly is .
Isn't it?
at any rate, what happened was that just absolutely put away all the credit cards.
I didn't rip them up.
I didn't send them back.
I just put them away.
there was one that it was really handy to have.
If I absolutely had to have something, I could go use it.
mostly we just spent cash. Whatever we had.
if we didn't have it, we absolutely didn't spend it.
as things improved,
I got them all through college, it came to the point where,
my parents came through the depression.
I'm not sure how old you are.
my parents too.
you were born the, in the late thirties or early forties.
Late thirties,
my mother hardly ever spent anything on herself or on the house.
that's kind of the way I was raised.
I'm not a very demanding person that aspect.
for quite a period of time, I just flat didn't spend any money.
meanwhile, I building bank balance.
my intent was that whenever something went on sale that I really had to have, I would have the cash to buy it right then and there.
And not ever have to spend any money on interest.
the way I've operated ever since then.
something goes on sale and I don't have the money, I still don't buy it.
buy what,
we just got through buying a twenty five foot refrigerator, a new ceramic top stove, and a new dishwasher.
my .
we put twenty eight hundred dollars on the charge. Along with my trip to Japan
which fourteen or fifteen hundred dollars
got a monster, bill coming in.
we also have zero being paid.
we pay it off it goes.
that's the way I do my credit cards now.
we never really get that much extended.
I do almost all my purchasing on credit cards.
it's the fact that I have enough cushion in the bank so that when they come, I can pay them in full.
doing that.
We have,
is our big,
we did redecorating.
new pieces room and new carpet.
we just
we've just been spending, spending, spending.
I'm envious .
we haven't really done anything for a long time because had two kids in college that
just have graduated in the past year.
have that.
It's time for you to do these things then. Right?
about time that we did that.
the terrible part about it. I've looked at it all *
it all looks still pretty good to me.
we need to replace it?
my wife really feels as though just been an inappropriate, thing
that rug is thirteen years old,
why not replace it.
I say it might go for another thirteen
too late, we'll never find that out.
This is so funny.
That's wonderful.
you're lucky to have her because if you're like me and you have difficulty spending money, you need somebody to help you spend it.
certain things really do need to be done whether or not you think they should,
be or not .
I don't spend that much money.
sort of have had, too many obligations to,
we sort of take care of the kids when they were school and got through school.
that was the major, decade of expenses,
feel as,
as far as any formal budgeting, we just apparently have been very fortunate.
When we to go out to eat, we go out to eat.
We never really, have to program money for that or make choices,
we don't have that uproarious lifestyle.
After all, we're,
How has it been this week for you?
Weather wise, or otherwise?
Weather wise.
Weather wise.
Damp, cold, warm .
gone through, what might be called the four seasons, in the last week.
We have had highs of seventy two, lows in the twenties.
My goodness.
I don't even want to tell you what ours has been like then.
It was ninety six yesterday,
I heard about that.
we set a record yesterday. very windy,
then today the wind has dropped off, and also, the temperature, very cool,
I think right now it's like sixty nine,
that's cool for u ,
it feels cool compared to yesterday, but very pleasant,
no rain in the last month, I don't think.
The ground's very dry
our yard work, everything is in bloom,
our yard work is pretty tough, the ground being dry,
I guess it also, brings about allergies,
we're having a lot of allergies down here right now.
Everything blooming,
the weather.
I think a lot of people have contracted, spring fever too,
Had a lot of people out at work, for fishing,
and golfing, reasons and things like that.
The blue flu,
the blue flu, or the white collar flu, depending on where you work, I guess.
variable weather.
It has been untypically wet for this time of year,
also, we have a lot of green,
the grass has been growing
if you look outside, you would like to go out and mow your lawn,
if you could go out and buy a new spark plug, or something along those lines,
fortunately it rains
you, do not have to go out and buy the spark plug,
we've had an unusually, warm spring,
I guess we're still in winter,
we have had no snow.
No snow?
We usually average, anywhere from six to twelve inches during the winter
this year, as well as last year, we have had less than four inches total accumulation.
it's been inordinately warm, here, this time of year.
in that regard, it's fine,
I envy you your ninety four degrees.
I thought I heard this morning that in San Antonio it was in the nineties yesterday.
it is.
Down in the more southern and western areas.
of course we are, about two hours from the northern border, straight south,
very windy.
It's amazing to me
I have only lived in Dallas for three years,
I cannot believe that the wind blows all the time.
It does,
very seldom, if any,
I can't remember, a day that I walked out and the wind wasn't blowing.
I spent six years in graduate school Indiana. In the flatlands,
it was that way every day.
Rarely a day went by when the wind was less than fifteen or twenty miles an hour.
Summer and winter,
became accustomed to it, I guess.
otherwise have had, a relatively mild winter,
speaking for this area of the country.
where did you go to school in Indiana?
I have a brother that lives in, South Bend, Indiana.
I had to always,
I've lived there for eight years myself.
I'd always said I was going to go back to school and go to Notre Dame.
I didn't.
you are not from that area originally, I can tell.
originally I'm from New Mexico.
I was born in New Mexico
we lived in, South Bend for years, and, then moved to, Tennessee
I thought I heard a little Tennessee in there somewhere.
Very much,
very much,
spent thirteen years there.
then moved to Dallas about three years ago.
you've I have .
my father was in the Air Force,
I see.
I worked for the government,
moved, much more frequently than I had intended for sixteen years,
I guess is my first conversation in this, series.
received a call last night because of the,
I had not received my, personal identification number.
I had to call Jack Godfrey today to ask him what it was, because had to abort the call last evening because I couldn't get on the line.
Yeah .
is there any,
I'm not sure how long we're supposed to talk.
just as long as you want to.
it's just, as long as you want to, just, a reasonable lengthy conversation.
do you work for Texas Instruments?
I do not.
I work for G T E.
sent application Jack.
I've known Jack for some time.
I'm in the speech processing business,
and have been for a number of years,
I was very much interested,
being a speaker for this .
work for Texas Instruments,
environmental engineer,
I see.
they just published this internally, getting people involved.
really strange.
was wondering why we had somebody from Maryland though.
I was saying, God, do we have a TI in Maryland
I'm sure you have a representative somewhere in the area.
If just nothing more than a business representative or government services representative,
been a speaker in other, similar type of activities.
I know the reason is being gathered and the program and so forth,
in being a speaker.
We haven't talked much about the weather .
I know that's what we're supposed to do.
really just says,
let's see, I can't,
I was looking at it,
I was trying to find out speedy short cuts,
I always thought it's not necessary to measure your time, just to go ahead and enjoy the conversation, end it when needed.
In environmental engineering,
is that with regard to work place engineering, or just,
it's actually, waste water.
I see.
care of
I'm actually in the air division,
we monitor, anything that comes out of a stack, or out of a building,
we do have customers that, their concerns are in the work place
we take care of that,
(( )) ,
within our department. We take care of everything. Waste water, solid waste, and recycling, air and ,
I had
the call last evening was supposed to be recycling ,
in the community.
The call I received,
thought a little bit about it,
before hand.
I have a, friend who is a planner.
a city planner.
one of his,
he models, city districts, and so forth,
does computer modeling.
one of the,
he from, an environmental engineer. (( )) .
is corporate wide,
we take care of just the Dallas area.
Of course we have several plants here,
we do air modeling also.
I see.
I take care of all the air modeling, specifically for the Dallas area.
What we do, we have a weather station, that we get all of this information, temperature, wind speed, wind direction,
we have a huge chemical data base.
that's interesting.
And, chemical data base, so that we know every chemical on site
it's concentration,
anything ever happened, God forbid, a building explosion or something we'd be able to track chemicals from that building with our weather station.
the first thing,
what do you think you would offer as far as, information about selecting a school?
first I think they've got to have a pretty good idea of do.
once they have that, then they can start looking in all the various publications that give out all the information about schools and write to the schools themselves, and start finding out about the different requirements for the programs and what kind job assistance and all that other kind of stuff they offer.
depending upon the field, I know there are some fields which a person should go to all four years,
I know there are some fields where it's really not necessary.
a lot fields are,
most of your liberal arts degrees and stuff aren't really concerned with your first two years anyway.
your core education, your
they want to get a liberal arts degree, know what advice I'd give them.
Go to the school you'd like to go to.
That's what I did .
I didn't care about the program or anything else.
I went where I wanted to go.
What was your degree in?
political science.
Political science,
know, I'm going to school right now,
I have a friend,
Where are you at?
U T D.
University of Texas, Dallas.
I guess, everybody's in Dallas that I talk to.
I'm in,
I know.
North Carolina.
That's where Texas Instruments is.
something think that I've noticed that
have a friend,
I think if you're going into law or medicine, a very particular, very specific field, engineering, a lot of the requirements at a public, institution.
it's a lot cheaper.
made a mistake sending my sister to a private institution for the first two years.
she found out after that,
she said, my parents, really wasted a lot of money.
This is about twenty years ago.
right now I just,
as far as a school, I feel that, a lot of it depends upon the major.
it does.
I didn't know what I wanted to do after I got degree.
originally I had planned, undergrad degree in political science and then a master's in public administration.
I went ahead and pursued that.
got as far as the thesis, and decided, To hell with it,
I didn't want it.
from that point I went to law school.
after a year and a half of that I decided I didn't want that either .
Haven't figured out what I want to be when I grow up.
I really did enjoy the law.
where I wanted to be,
I didn't want to go through hassle that the law schools put you through, because I never did want to be a practicing attorney.
I just wanted a law degree.
I've since discovered that I would be far better off being in the paralegal field.
Because that's the nuts and bolts of the law, and that's what I like,
you don't have to put up with all the B S that the lawyers have to.
what I'm pursuing right now
I'm pretty happy with it so far.
pursuing what's called an interdisciplinary field.
I'm a speech therapy major
fortunately good medical background,
that's probably very useful.
actually turning out to be useful than what I thought.
I also have a good languages background, linguistics.
And some psychology.
it's all working together.
The only field I'm not familiar with really is education, which about four or five different fields
good grief.
it's a,
I thought at one time I wanted to be a teacher,
quickly dispelled that idea when I became a substitute teacher for a while, just to get my feet wet.
I said, I couldn't do this everyday.
No way.
being a tenured professor would be one thing, but being a public school teacher is entirely another thing.
you are a disgruntled graduate student .
just a disgruntled person all around .
original, Mister Scrooge, I guess.
Bah, humbug.
bah, humbug.
I just,
I think,
there is,
I think, law would be fine field to go into.
I know one time I was in a political science class,
talking about fields, people going into different fields, I made an the cuff remark about lawyers,
about their integrity being questionable.
that was like a can of worms.
got everybody on you, because they were probably all going to law school.
there was a woman,
she said best friends are lawyers and all this,
it was just .
that remark in itself is a slam .
My best friends are lawyers .
I know.
my best friends are blacks .
Or Jewish,
it used to be Jewish,
now blacks
guess Iraqi now is the .
I know,
was a lot of fun until you get to law school
it doesn't become fun anymore.
another friend going into law,
I'm really, I'm really concerned about,
she's just going to be,
what's going to happen when she gets there.
you going,
all of her dreams will be dispelled .
if you've ever seen the program PAPER CHASE
it's very much like that, except worse.
think it's probably more embarrassing and very painful.
It is.
I see
very much so.
I see that happening.
a lot of that.
was enjoyable for a while,
it's such a grind
you begin to wonder,
I'm not,
you really have to be dead set on being a lawyer to do it.
If you have any doubts whatsoever, you better not get into it.
I wasted a year and a half of awfully hard,
I aged ten years.
I wouldn't trade the experience for anything in the world.
It never hurts to have some kind of a grounding in law.
I went to a language school,
I guess, United States institution.
I was military at the time .
What branch were you in?
probably the biggest.
What branch were you in?
I was in the Air Force?
I was too.
for myself, I think that military experience was fine,
that there was something else that I could have done, with,
tired of the service after a while,
I had a terrific job, really enjoyed it.
was your job?
command post.
a linguist .
I was just wondering, were you in SAC by any chance? .
Were you in SAC?
In Tak?
I wasn't.
thought maybe you might have had some experience with the, R C one thirty fives.
go flight crew.
Matter of fact, I didn't make it completely field.
I, was in intelligence school and about three weeks short.
I didn't make it,
I sort of washed out.
after about eighteen months of talking about the
year and a half training, something,
I think that's why, children really need to think about the field they're and spend a lot of serious
reading not just
thinking about.
They actually should do some reading
That's right,
they should study it.
And if it's possible even get some experience at it at least watch some people
do it.
I, I think, I think there's a lot to be said for kids working
after school.
find out just how much of a people person they are.
That's true,
I found that out when I was in high school.
I worked at McDonald's.
I tell you what,
I worked at McDonald's as well,
can tell you one thing,
there are just some people that I,
you just came to the point where
I eventually worked as a lab technician,
I worked front desk.
somebody could walk in the door,
I knew exactly what they were going to do say.
I was the same way too.
I'm not a people person.
I hate, having to play such a nice guy.
especially when it's all phony.
Especially when you got some, jerk coming in.
it's just not for me.
deal much better in research and books, and stuff like that
which is why I'm going to enjoy the paralegal field a lot.
that's good.
I was just wondering, getting back to the school thing, almost wish that there was something ...
What kind of a car do you drive now?
I drive a Honda Prelude.
Do you?
I drive a Honda Accord.
yeah .
Yeah .
I bought mine a year ago
I'm not buying a car any time soon.
me either.
I just bought mine,
it will be a year in August.
I love it though.
I love Hondas.
I think I found my car.
like where all the controls are
they're, they're in good spots
have an automatic I can't drive a standard. *
I have a standard.
supposedly real reliable
the only thing I've ever heard about Hondas is that the breaks go out first.
I hadn't heard that.
What did you have before you bought that.
I had a Buick Regal.
Did you?
I had, a Mazda R X Seven before that
that was the worse car I've ever driven in my life.
The Buick great.
It was nine years old
was still going strong.
The only problems I had with it in the nine years that I owned it, I had to replace the compressor when it was about seven years old.
that was the only major problem that I had,
I had little piddly things like
I had to replace the muffler
I had replaced the tires
seems like it had a radiator leak once.
I never had any major anything,
other than the compressor.
I really never had anything major with my Mazda
it was a standard also
the clutch went out on it toward the end,
I had it five years
the it seemed to go out really easily.
I think it went out twice in two years
a lot
it shouldn't go out that much.
I went ahead and bought another standard when I bought the Honda
I don't think I'm going to do that again.
I think I'm going back to automatic now.
I never,
I kind of know how to drive standard
I've never owned one
drive one a lot.
I don't feel comfortable in traffic with it.
for everything I've heard it's a lot easier to sell an automatic.
it is.
That's true.
resale value is really important to me .
it is me too
that's why I got the Honda.
Hondas have great resale value.
The Mazda definitely did not .
Not at all.
They're worse than American cars I think or just as bad as far as resale goes.
I did pretty well with my, Regal because it was in really good shape
it still looked real nice,
interior was still really nice,
there wasn't cracks all over the dash board and stuff.
it had nice features.
I ended up okay with the Buick,
I anticipate the same thing with the Honda whenever I decide to sell it,
of course, I may never sell it ,
I may drive it until it's dead
That's what I did with the Mazda, drive it clutch went out and the wheels fell off,
probably what I'll do again.
I really like the Hondas.
I like foreign cars
a lot.
I looked at the Mitsubishi Galant.
I was looking for a four door car having driven the R X Seven so long,
it was so small
it's really impractical.
I wanted something with a real trunk, and four doors something easy to get in and out of
I looked at the Galant
those were really nice
I can get them for a great price.
I found it hard to deal with dealership I was going through.
that's how I ended up with a Honda.
I wasn't even looking for a car when I bought this car.
was thinking about buying a Prelude from a friend who was moving to New York or something
she was going to sell her car because she didn't need it anymore
it was only like a year old
I had never driven, a Prelude.
I went to a dealership because they had the same year and same model,
of Prelude on their used car lot
I went and I test drove it
I just fell in love,
with this brand new white Prelude,
They're nice I think.
two liter S I with the sun roof and the moon roof
bought it loaded.
I have to have them loaded,
I love all those little things that you don't need
they're so wonderful.
I went there looking at a used car
two days later I bought this car.
largest impulse that I,
that I had ever made.
The oth , the two,
I understand.
other things that I bought on impulse are a V C R and a washer ,
and dryer.
I go for the big stuff.
I noticed .
Mine was definitely not impulse
I really needed a new car.
Mine was just, it was getting worn out I guess from being a sports car.
I drove it kind of hard,
I got it right after high school.
by the time I traded it in it was ready.
I got,
Ready to go. *
I got my Buick as a high school graduation gift.
Did you?
guess this wasn't really an impulse,
buying it right then and, right quickly was kind of impulsive
I'd been thinking about buying a new car for about three years
I was just scared to.
I was scared to start taking on payments because the Buick was long since paid for.
That's the same with me.
Would you ever buy a used car for a new car for yourself?
buy a used car?
was going to buy one once
worry about who's driven them and what they've been through and the warranties and things like that.
Just, I can't seem to get over that.
That just bothers me
I don't know why.
like on Hondas they,
supposedly, the maintenance records was supposed to be registered with Honda or whatever
you can request whatever maintenance records exist on cars
you can have them checked out by mechanics and stuff.
that's true.
they can't stop you from doing it.
Hoping that they do go to a Honda dealership to get them serviced.
even if they didn't, you can still get a good idea if you can get a good mechanic to,
check it over real carefully and check the block and everything.
That's true.
I guess that's all.
I enjoyed talking to you.
I enjoyed talking to you.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
first comments on that subject?
my first comments on the budget.
I would say there has,
What would you start cutting f ,
what would be the first thing you'd cut?
Surprisingly, no.
cut the prison systems and let them self support.
Mean private enterprise?
Have private do it?
You mean the prisons?
They're already talking about it.
they're talking about, having it, as a, business. so, government doesn't have to deal with it.
I hadn't heard that.
I think it's all funded, either state or federally funded
to me it,
not enough room in these prisons to continue funding it.
They think they need to, maybe have, come in.
the other way I'm thinking about is they should be self supporting, like, the prisoners make license plates or farm or small industry inside the prisons. Anything to where they can be self supporting within themselves.
In other words, they're in there for a purpose,
put them to work
rather than sitting there.
It's the same thing like the whole department of the United States.
I feel the same way.
someone gets picked up for drunk driving,
he should put enough in there that goes back into paying for that policeman being out there.
it's on that point.
as far as my defense budget, they're cutting it back now, what, twenty five percent?
I wouldn't want to see it cut any more than that.
again I'd like to see something on the other end back into education. But not in the education we have today.
I'm lost on that one.
I would like to be a little more into investigating some of the other countries in the world and their educational problems. And to come up with something a little better than what we've got.
its tough say
as far as this, that good or bad or what.
I was just talking to somebody else,
all those European countries, they pay all the way through college and stuff like that.
not so much pay.
I'm not trying to see the government put out any more.
I know what you are saying.
I'm just saying that even the differences, is that, some countries pay for students to go college and etcetera.
here, just up to high school.
we don't even push the fact to the high school kids that there's other means of education out there rather than college. To go either as an apprentice, which do in other countries. Just doing it, which I think would bring the education back up.
why not an apprentice out to company and learn from down on the bottom as a wood worker or, just a technician?
You can learn on the job.
our education budget will go down if this is,
in a few years, it's not going to be overnight.
that would come down.
I think one reason, we do have the education is that what it takes for these companies to bring somebody on board.
they're not willing put that,
the training for only a certain amount.
it's, as far as the technical side.
of the biggest things now is paralegals and stuff.
trying to get more people into that field.
they can't just bring somebody in without even having gone to, school in that area before they can work, for a lawyer as a paralegal.
I see it being done .
I know of a friend that works for my lawyer that has had no training whatsoever
she's training her.
I, I'm assuming that it can be done.
my perspective is that, I've been with a couple of big companies now.
it's like they'd, are unwilling to put the time in.
they want somebody, that they have something, a certain amount to contribute.
Obviously, a lot to learn, after that.
that's true.
sure there's a lot of,
businesses are businesses that could,
Let me change my channel,
I've got a cordless phone.
Let me see if that clears this up.
Is that better?
(( )) Yeah,
it was a cordless phone,
all of a sudden we had a bad, frequency there or something.
we had some interference,
I changed that.
It sounded you were calling from around the world somewhere .
I think, need to, help promote that more. Give incentives like, if they do bring somebody on, they will pay some of their costs or give tax breaks or whatever it is, for them to train people,
stuff like that. Programs like that,
I don't know, what kind of options they've got.
that's something about what Germany's supposed to be doing. Something similar to that right now.
they have jobs out on, bulletin boards so people know what is open for an apprentices in different fields.
that again would cut some of our budget down for education but build up our education with the people.
which I would like to see. Rather than so many kids getting out of school.
on the unemployment list before we have turn around.
Because they don't have any education.
I don't mean college.
I'm for college.
there's a lot of people that don't want their higher education as far as college is concerned.
They've had it.
I think, I just heard something the other day,
it was only, it was either sixty percent or forty percent, go to college.
out of that percentage, only so many can get their degree.
I thought that was interesting.
most people I knew have gone and got their degree.
there's a lot of them out there that haven't.
was basic, in a, class area,
I think, that demographic area there, a lot of them do go on.
they go to college, etcetera.
it seems to me that kids that get out of high school that parents have gone to college and college here and college there that are really not interested in going to college and forced into it, usually are your drop outs. Where if they're said, hey, it's just as advisable to go into something you enjoy and you like. *
you can get just as far as being a journeyman, carpenter or an electrician or plumber or anything else like that. Make as much money
if they enjoy it more, they'll make a lo , happier life for themselves.
You threw that question on me about the deficit,
put it on your shoe now.
What would you do?
far as deficit, that's a whole nother, my perception of the budget, the government.
they have so much to spend
there's not enough money to spread around.
the deficit basically is that the trade surplus between the other countries, that we have going out and too many goods coming into this country,
part of that problem, I think, is still,
Japan still does not let us compete fairly in their country.
obviously demand for their goods is quite high here,
they can get their goods in here.
to start even that out we need to continue to, at least threaten that,
we're going to give them higher tariffs, etcetera to raise their prices to, ours.
it's just that, they're,
I think going to find that just because the United States, there is such a demand here, the market,
the being spent and the goods flow in and products abroad as much as we bring in.
Were you watching,
I think,
one of the news stations. they had on there, where output from the United States was basically from smaller businesses rather than the larger ones are exporting.
what kind of puppy you got?
I think she's mostly German Shepherd.
she was,
a person lives across the street from me, brought her home from work because a coworker of hers, had this dog appear on its front doorstep,
abandoned her
she's only six to eight weeks old
I can't understand why anyone would abandon this dog, though.
she's young
she's almost housebroken.
she actually asks to go out.
That's great.
I was amazed.
Really good temperament and very playful and affectionate, good personality.
I don't know,
I can't imagine what, would have been wrong with this dog,
have a dog that God gave us too, .
she just appeared.
my husband calls her street dog,
we've had her now for about three years,
I just,
you get so attached to them.
I had a,
last year German Shepherd,
this one was purebred
was about seven months old got a gastrointestinal virus and was just about on death's door
managed to get him to a veterinarian in time,
on huge doses of antibiotics,
he actually got over it with, seven hundred dollars in vet bills,
he had actually was able to get him over that.
he was gaining weight again, was just getting healthy,
he put on about fifteen to twenty pounds after the thing
he got hit by a Cadillac.
I couldn't believe it.
really hard.
that was even harder for,
I was on a business trip at the time
the dog was being house sit, or dog sit, whatever, by some friends of mine down the street,
they just felt absolutely awful.
I bet.
I probably worse for them for me
gosh this fellow's wife who was, watching the dog, loved that dog more than I did
She was attached to it,
it's unfortunate,
now, I've got another one,
How long has it been since the first one?
it was just over a year.
it was in March of last year.
didn't have one for a whole year.
a German Shepherd before this one
when she died absolutely destroyed me.
I was just, ,
I couldn't even talk about it for months
I decided
I'm not going to do this anymore .
God gave me this dog,
My dad's like that,
had a beagle that he loved
when that beagle passed away, to have another dog,
there's no way,
the beagle died in I guess about October
by Christmas time we went down to the gue , Humane Society and another one, a stray.
turned out to be a great dog
we had her for six years until she just passed away recently
again dad went through the whole thing,
mom went an,
you just do,
you can't help
like, it's like a kid.
it is.
hopefully this one here, Cocoa will live a full life .
doggie, that we have now, mostly Golden Retriever.
The vet called her, a golden mix ,
who knows,
that sort of strawberry blonde reddish color,
her nose is that pink,
she doesn't have a brown nose,
her ey , she's sort of unicolor,
eyes are the same color and everything,
I named her Rosebud,
a friend of mine said, gre ,
this friend of mine grew up on a farm and said that she had, a pet cow named Rosebud
she said there's a lot of longevity in that name,
said my cow lived seventeen years .
That's not too bad.
Golly the Golden Retriever's are good dogs too,
they're kind of like, get that permanent smile to them,
they're happy.
I don't think I've ever seen them not look happy.
she's so easy going and so sociable,
she loves everybody.
little kids can just, maul all over her,
she just, thinks it's great.
friend of mine has, th ,
it's the same guy that was watching, my German Shepherd when he got hit,
went fishing with him on Friday and took,
he's got bred Golden Retriever
I had, the puppy, a little tiny puppy
we went and took the two dogs up fishing.
had a ball romping around,
you can't get a Golden Retriever near water without it jumping in.
Getting in,
this Golden Retriever jumped in really fast moving, river current,
actually he had no trouble at all.
He first jumped in
just about a year old himself and never had really,
I don't think he'd swum before.
he jumped river.
Did puppy go to?
the puppy jumped some of the pools but not into the,
I was careful to keep her away from the,
that's good,
the fast moving water,
if she fell in then I'd in after her.
up here the waters probably about forty degrees right now.
I would not have been fun trying to retrieve her,
this dog, Dennis jumped in and got this look on his face like what do I do now, as he's floating down the river then finally discovered that he could swim and, actually paddled up against the current and, made it back to the shore and climbed up
jumped in again,
he was swimming for quite a bit, all afternoon.
He loved it.
Cocoa didn't think too much of it, though.
She jumped in and then started screaming and made me pull her back out.
I pulled her out and, then had to wrap her up in a sweatshirt because she was shivering so bad,
she got over it,
the German Shepherd that I had before,
had a little pool,
not want any part of swimming
she liked get in the pool on the first step.
She'd just get on the first step and lay down.
in the summertime when it's really, really hot.
she'd just lay there on that step and just, cool off .
right across the street from big lake here,
it's on Oneida lake
I'm wondering she'll want to go out there and go swimming next year.
I've got,
the yards all fenced in
she doesn't run loose,
she could go in sometime I'm watching her,
Yeah .
the one that we had just didn't want any part of that.
gee, she hated baths worse than anything.
just really a fight to, get her clean.
Have you seen, CANINE.
The movie,
you've got to see it. Especially since you have a German,
it is so cute.
part of movie is where he's trying to clean this dog up
just hysterical.
dog, last German Shepherd, it was a real chore trying to give him a bath too.
that was the thing I couldn't figure out
he would go in the lake,
it wasn't like he didn't
i ,
normally, he didn't seem to have a problem with getting wet,
if you wanted to get him wet, forget it.
that's how Cleo, w ,
she'd lay on her step,
the only time she wanted to get wet
she didn't want you getting her wet .
you really need to see that movie.
bought the movie
know how many times I've seen it.
it came on T V the other night
I was watching it again,
my husband heard me laughing
he said I can't believe that you're still getting such a kick out of that movie .
I'll have to check it out.
I saw previews for it and all
it did look like it'd be a good
It is great.
really haven't had a whole lot of time to get out to see the movies lately.
I got to do fun things.
we always wait until we can rent them, .
a second lieutenant in the Air Force
I travel a lot.
I'm a engineer the Griffis Air Force Base, up here,
That's how I got the switchboard project and all that,
it's nice having a dog here,
there's just,
I'm looking for, lots of affection, no co ,
unconditional affection dog.
that's it.
not critical at all.
they're really wonderful.
it's been nice talking to you,
we seem to be degenerating here,
I don't have strong feelings about changes to be made in the, jury system, do you?
not at all.
In fact, I'm graduating from college in about a week
this past semester I've taken two criminal justice classes and have discussed a lot on trials.
then you must know a lot more about this than I do .
right now, fine.
I think it should be by a jury.
I don't think the judge should have,
he's just there kind of like the referee .
even think that it should be unanimous either.
what about the idea that one is only guilty, when proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt?
I thought that was the point of, a unanimous jury was the idea that if everyone agrees
then there shouldn't be any reasonable doubt.
if there are some people who don't agree
at least a reasonable doubt for some people.
I don't know.
rarely hear, you hear, of course there's cases where someone has been put in, prison, falsely accused
more than likely the people that are on jury know what they're doing.
Have you served on a jury?
I never have either,
who have, say just the opposite .
They say they're, remarkably incompetent. And, don't know what they're doing say one thing in the courtroom and then as soon as they get in the back room they just start letting all their prejudices hang out air, and all that.
you would think that they would get that in the,
when the prosecution and defense are choosing the jury you would think that those would come out
know they automatically,
is, you're automatically like a professor in criminal justice or something like that,
that you're automatically,
they don't want you on the jury.
(( )) , they don't want anyone with exper ,
anyone with particular experience or knowledge of the legal system.
they tend,
since anyone can get out of it who basically says they don't want to do it,
anyone can get out of jury just about,
it's not really my peers that,
falsely or not
and put up for a jury I wouldn't feel that, I would be being tried by a jury of my peers.
tried by a jury of , people who had nothing else to do and weren't very knowledgeable about certain sorts of things,
I don't know,
get a little bit nervous about it,
never , I've never even been called to jury duty.
was called once,
I was out of the country,
they thought I served
make any noise about it .
I came back
they said the record showed I served,
I was out of the country at the time,
I'm pretty sure I didn't.
don't know,
a lot of problems with the legal system .
I don't know,
I definitely feel like we need to keep it at least unanimous
there's the classic sort of TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD kind of story where you get,
jury which can have all kinds of prejudices and things that, a judge at least officially isn't supposed to have. Though, of course they can, too. *
it seems to me that if you could just have a simple majority or something you could pretty much the jury,
a majority of the jury,
that's hard to say.
saying, look we don't like the way he looks
throw the rascal in jail and stuff.
you also get a lot of, juries are extremely,
from what I hear,
have, I have some friends who do expert testimony
they say that, juries are extremely vulnerable to, sort of emotional pitches,
the prosecutor will want to, mugging victim, show the nice person he was and what a family life, and basically get the jury to be very sympathetic with the victim,
if it's a corporation, that was, some individual or something like that, they get very much,
it's just a big faceless
make them pay as much as possible.
Things like that.
the problem is I can't guarantee that a judge would much better than a jury,
I'd be real nervous having a jury not at least fully agree on what the settlements would be,
Ri ,
things like that.
do , don't think the judge should just make the decision alone.
Least with the jury you have twelve people,
that are going to decide,
you're person's fate. *
how about having a and a judge work together on it somehow?
I wonder if that's possible?
I guess the judge's time is worth too much, though.
Exac ,
(( )) judge .
exactly .
He makes more money in an hour than all twelve of them put together.
yeah .
sad, though, the people, though, that
somebody's life is in twelve people's hands
sometimes those twelve people could care less.
they fool defense in thinking that they're,
when they go through those processes they kind of pick out who they want.
of course.
political maneuvering.
one side is looking for someone whose face they think will, want to hang everyone,
the other one is going to look for someone very sympathetic.
They're not looking for someone whose going to be the most reasoned or sensible or rational juror. *
Neither side wants that.
They want to find a juror that's going to, be most persuadable by their arguments,
I wish it were a little bit harder to not serve on juries actually.
I know, it's tricky
I know, an awful lot of intelligent people who just,
I'm too busy to serve on a jury,
I'll tell them that
they answer one of the questions the wrong way because you can do that,
they just say do you believe in such and such.
I guess it's just that maybe people are, upset at court,
family member of theirs, though that was innocent
they'd want to be on that jury.
Course, barred,
something you have to do . *
it sounds like we both need to get out there and serve on a jury.
I hope we're called up before too long.
I would love to be called,
I'm ready to go .
They just haven't called me up yet .
it was nice talking with you.
It was nice talking to you.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
All right.
Have you ever been drug tested?
that's a good question.
I had a job I had to go get a blood test for.
they did a full blood screen on me,
they didn't call that a drug test.
tha ,
I think they checked for drugs.
They just don't tell you they did.
two or three drug tests that I had to get before I could start working at a job
different jobs.
I had one at T I and then one at another engineering company.
really, I don't mind them.
I don't do drugs anyway.
I guess if I did, maybe I would
I don't know.
I know a girl that, she's a nurse,
they get drug tested randomly.
never been randomly drug tested.
that would probably bother me to wake up one day and find out halfway through the day that you're going to be drug tested and you didn't know about it.
Yeah .
I guess it depends on if you got something to worry about .
I guess so.
I guess so .
Do you think that it's right?
I come from kind of a biased opinion because I'm therapist and a drug and alcohol counselor.
I've done employee assistant work
know the kind of cost businesses go through in terms of accidents,
on the job that are specifically drug and alcohol related,
it's in the billions of dollars every year.
only way that they can prevent that making sure that the employees are drug and alcohol free.
That's true.
problem in the work place is people are,
if your boss is your drinking buddy or whatever, you can work drunk and get in an accident
he'll cover up for you
nobody knows about it,
the company lots and lots of money.
That's true.
I believe,
(( )) ,
it's right,
especially for certain jobs.
I think anyone public job like bus drivers, and cab drivers, and
police officers, and things like that,
I think they should be
randomly drug tested.
I believe,
full force in that.
I don't know that I believe every secretary in every company needs to be.
secretaries really going to cost the company that much money if they fall face forward in their typewriter or something.
I don't know.
kind of biased, too, because I don't do drugs
C and,
so, I really don't care one way or another if anybody wants to pull me up tomorrow and test me.
Because I have nothing to worry about.
I guess that's kind of biased.
it's, think one of the problems with it is it affects a lot of other folks on the job
It does.
if somebody else is impaired.
(( )) generally you know it.
you find out one way or another if somebody's got a problem on the job.
That's true.
like you say, even if it's just the secretary,
if her work or abilities start affecting her co workers
then still a problem.
That's true.
what do you do about,
the occasional user that may have gone to a party three days before
been the whole weekend since they've done anything
they happen to be tested Monday morning
they could be fired for that?
kind of unfair, also.
(( yeah )) .
I guess it comes with the turf.
I guess so.
I guess if you're going to do it you need to suffer the consequences .
in terms of drugs, they're illegal.
That's true.
you're breaking the law anyway.
That's true.
Probably biggest problem with those is they don't do a real good job assessing for alcohol.
That's true.
that's probably the biggest problem there is .
I think so, more than drugs .
I know a lot of companies that will put you in an alcohol rehabilitation before they would put you in a drug rehab.
They would pay for an alcohol
they don't always pay for drug rehabilitation.
I guess that's one of the positive things that come out of it, some of the employee assistance program.
If you do test positive for something
they will give you an opportunity to go get your life straight rather than to lose you're job. *
That's true.
th ,
think that's fair.
I think in the long run.
Yeah .
That's true .
That's about all I have,
to say on it .
kind of testing do they do when you went?
it's a urine test.
Urine screen.
it was really very official.
You have to go in a room solely by yourself, sign papers that say you were totally alone, sign papers that say this is yours,
you have to seal the bottle yourself and label it yourself and,
all of that.
So that they're sure that you haven't borrowed anybody's, I guess, or something.
that happens.
I know,
to believe,
It happens a lot.
I guess it does .
are people that pay other people to ,
I know.
I'm amazed,
to help them out.
at the things people,
will do.
It is amazing.
I guess there are people that do that.
expensive tests.
glad I never had to pay for one.
It depends really on strong a test it is.
They've got different degrees,
I guess so.
as far how far back they can check.
They got some unusual things besides blood and urine tests.
They've (( )) some companies that are doing, hair tests.
they'll pull out one of your hairs
they can apparently test, back a certain period of time.
How weird.
I didn't know that.
Because (( )) some of residue ends up in your hair follicles,
it's kind of,
that's weird.
Hair follicles, I guess, are just dead protein
apparently like calendar.
got it pretty precise now.
They can go back and look at, in terms of growth hair, when you used that type of thing.
That's wild.
It's amazing the things they can find out from different things on your body.
Yeah .
I guess if they perfect that (( )) is not quite as cumbersome as having to go fill a bottle or
That's true .
give blood or something like that.
That's true.
I'm glad I never had to do it by giving blood.
I can't stand the thought of giving blood.
I can't even do it for Wadley, even though it's a good cause .
I enjoyed talking to you.
I did, too.
Thank you.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
tell me about CHINA CRY.
CHINA CRY was basically true story written by lady who Chinese, who was raised by Christian parents.
time frame was prior to the nineteen forty nine revolution.
I see.
Although she, herself, had never really accepted Jesus or gone through any of the other, Christian, portions the faith, repentance, baptisms, et cetera, et cetera. She had always felt a very strong, leaning in this direction.
whenever the cultural revolution of nineteen forty nine occurred and most churches were either banned or clergy and so forth were killed imprisoned the property confiscated, she was safe because she had, not officially joined Christian movement.
, grew up towards maturity, her parents,
her dad was a doctor
he was well to do in the old regime
the commu , the communist Chinese didn't like this at all.
the bourgeoisie was out of, style, then.
Everybody was back to a commonality of one.
they kept picking at him, picking mother and, finally, started picking on her.
And getting her to,
they were starting to, accuse her of, crimes and atrocities before revolution had her write her own story over and over and over.
major point of the movie was she had, married Chinese fellow and was with child when they started this mass court.
I think I'm leaving out a portion.
through college and graduated very high up in her class and had, gotten a job an instructor
they history for the soldiers.
When decided she needed to start recanting of all of her pre, regime crimes as it were.
Being a child,
they kept on and on her,
in the meantime, she and her husband, were expecting
people kept harassing her a period of months
finally they, carried her, out into the courtyard either really to shoot her or to go through the motions shooting her, squad.
the Lord just said no,
this is not going to happen even though this lady has not really,
one of mine,
she is not going to die
soldiers were blinded when they shot.
life was spared.
frightened the commandant
he called this kind of stuff off and just put her in the labor camp.
course, here's woman who is heavy with child dragging rocks around.
put in for to,
her husband had escaped to Hong Kong,
she put in to go see him.
over time she,
finally, through her perseverance and writing enough letters to enough different people embarrassed enough of middle, that they finally let her go.
of course, she had to walk.
stripped her of everything, practically besides clothes on her back.
she went across the border to her husband child that they'd already had
to freedom.
they knew that she wasn't going to come back,
she did, years later when the, liberalization, in real life
liberalization of China happened,
she was not persecuted or anything else like that.
Interesting story.
it was.
very moving, too.
don't even remember seeing that advertised
it was probably here and gone fairly quickly.
it was within, ninety days.
That recent.
it was advertised over a period of about ninety days.
I see what you mean.
it wasn't,
they didn't have it in, too awfully many movie houses,
in the,
it had large, press release.
I guess saw most recently and luckily I saw it only a week ago so I'd remember
remember it well was, sort of light by comparison.
my husband and I had this great desire to go see a comedy
we ended up going to see GREEN CARD.
GREEN CARD?
GREEN CARD.
he chose it
it's got this wonderful French actor who's,
it was
he's been a star in France and a wonderful actor who we've enjoyed for years,
he's never made an American film.
This was his American film debut
I see,
he speaks very broken English.
basically he played, a Frenchman who married an American girl, in a marriage of convenience
so that he could get his green card, which is what an alien needs to work in this country.
because she could claim she was married, she could get, an apartment or a condominium in a very exclusive building in New York that had an outside garden, which is very unusual there.
she was a horticulturist,
that was sort of her dream.
I see,
Of course, they got married
they never saw each other again.
fate through them together *
the Immigration and Service, started investigating.
they had to get back together and get their stories straight,
she was a very svelte, sophisticated urban New Yorker
he was poor Frenchman who had grown up streets and sort of pulled himself up by his bootstraps and claimed to be a composer,
there was no proof whatsoever that he really was.
He'd been working in a restaurant when they met.
they had to learn all about each other basically
Just then.
it was,
you knew what was going to happen, of course.
That they would fall in love.
they fell into like, at any rate
when they went to the query or inquisition or whatever, they did perfectly
he said something, because his English was so poor the most part,
was so proud of himself for giving answers on the last one he said, I never remember that answer
that clued the investigator that he had memorized a series of answers.
Okay .
did you go to college?
I did.
where did you go?
I went to a small liberal arts college in Virginia.
it was (( Sweeper )) College of about seven hundred and fifty students.
I had gone to a small school growing up,
a lot of my friends went to of Michigan
my parents were retiring in South Carolina when I graduated and, were looking for a southern school
U of M seemed overwhelming in size
what about you?
I went to the University of Minnesota.
you're from the Midwest, too.
I am,
Where do you live now?
I live in Texas now.
Where are you?
I'm in Texas.
I'm in Austin.
my brother's in Austin.
he lives Lakeway.
He, had moved,
we're in Plano.
I'm familiar with Plano.
I visited once or twice.
Austin is so pretty.
I love it.
really like it .
I love it.
I really do.
your daughter is going to be a sophomore.
That's correct.
I have two daughters,
my oldest a sophomore.
she thinking about the University of Texas?
She has her heart set on U T.
having gone to the University of Minnesota, I know what a big university is like.
one thing that I did this summer, which I thought might benefit both my daughters is, my youngest daughter got involved in band,
Baylor has a band camp.
she went for a week,
it was overnight,
they lived in the dorms.
I thought this would expose both of them to what it's, like on a campus.
my oldest one just wasn't impressed at all with the idea of a small school.
I still think the exposure was good.
The reason I ask if you went to college is I thought,
what were your selection criteria.
Did you base it on what you wanted to major in or what you would feel comfortable with or what you could afford
there's all of these areas to look at in making the decision.
were several, that we did consider.
my parents, certainly didn't push but wanted me to look in the south
because I had been in a small school, they suggested that
when I say small, my graduating class had eighteen in it.
they suggested that I might want a smaller school because I was used to a lot of one on one
small group situations.
I did pick it because at the time I was interested in majoring in biology
I also wanted to spend one year studying in Europe.
I had had an A F S student from Germany live with us our senior year
how exciting.
we just thought that would be a wonderful thing
I ended up majoring in French.
One of the reasons I picked the school was because they had a strong science department.
They also had a strong language department
I'd always loved working with children.
I found that I couldn't fit everything in,
because I had had a fair amount of French going in
I was able to do my year's study in France and able to take a lot of the other courses that interested me.
that was,
that was some of,
That worked out very well for you.
several of the things you mentioned were the things that, our son has talked a lot about Texas A and M.
thinks he wants to be a writer
I don't think that,
then he should come to U T.
Yes .
really graduating class will probably be in the neighborhood of eight hundred and fifty to a thousand.
he's used to a bigger size
Large classes.
my brother have family, close by.
are advantages.
I also,
I had so many friends who did go from our small school to University of Michigan, which was so large
they really felt, like they were numbers.
I went from a large high school to a
You still,
definitely felt like
I was a number.
it is a different feeling.
my only option.
I just really couldn't look at anything else.
That was the one and only thing I could really afford other than college, which I didn't want to do.
that's how, my decision was made.
especially today with the cost of college.
that is major, consideration
I do feel fortunate that Texas has so many good schools.
even though Baylor,
when you mentioned that, have friends who have children there who just love it.
for a private school it is not as expensive as most are
it is a smaller size
I do feel like there are a lot of options.
, I had been hoping some schools I know give,
even this year, Jay had an aptitude test,
he hopes to be a writer.
he thinks that's what he'd like to do,
he's really strong in math and science, too,
we keep encouraging him to keep an open mind.
Does your daughter know what she'd like to do?
has, interests that are just, going in all directions.
what she talks about a lot is theater which I think is ,
okay Bethany, let's be real .
she really pretty unfocussed at this point.
I don't know,
she's taken a lot of French,
she may end up doing something with that.
I am a single mom,
I've been,
I made the mistake of dropping out of college to get married.
I'm trying to have my children not make the same mistake.
I'm, showing them if you're strong in math science, kiddos, this is one area where women can make some decent money.
I'm kind of really putting the practical application, saying, yet, do something that you enjoy.
By all means, go get that piece of paper,
Do you just have one son?
I see.
it sounds like he's got some really, good strong ideas of what he wants to do.
has even,
now that he's in high school,
of course, still time,
he's beginning to feel that, as much as he enjoys writing, he wonders if he can make a living at it.
I guess we're supposed to discuss the, school system.
That shouldn't be too much trouble for the two of us. Right?
As many years as we've been involved in one.
I really feel fortunate in that there, even though there are problems,
they're not a lot of problems where I teach.
from talking to people in other districts there are some major problems, with dropouts.
when I was in Minnesota last summer
huh .
there was a teacher who said that, on a given day she didn't know how many of her students would show up
sometimes they didn't even show up for class
she taught in high school in inner city, Minneapolis.
they just didn't come to school.
That's really sad isn't it? .
I cannot imagine being able to do much of anything when they don't even come to school.
just recently in the paper here, were articles about students, working. High school students
that work and the percentage of hours that they work and how that affects their grades.
the follow up the next day was,
I was kind of glad to see,
said that,
for those students who are determined to do well anyway, that, handling a job was very possible.
and that it seemed to have more to do with other factors.
I think so too.
what are their plans after high school,
what's their home situation.
The home is the key.
I think really is because if the home,
does not place a high priority on education
main goal is making money now
it may be a survival thing
for the family, which you can understand.
there can still be an attitude of
this is a stopgap measure because we need it right now,
most important thing is still,
Your education.
getting your education.
when they topic, of what's wrong with the public schools, first was it isn't really what's wrong with the schools.
It's what's wrong with families .
That's right.
It's what's wrong with families
children come to school,
society in general.
insecure and their biggest concern is survival
both at home,
they don't know what to expect at home.
They don't feel secure there,
they don't know what's going to happen just out front of their apartment complex.
For example that child that was shot.
how can they concentrate on schooling?
I agree
with you,
I think that's the main problem.
school's now are supposed to solve social problems, mental and emotional problems
as well as educate the kids and try to provide them with some security.
that's overwhelming.
over a thousand elementary kids
last year was the first year that we ever had more than one counselor.
that's just really not enough.
It isn't.
I was talking to somebody that teaches in a middle school
they said, we need more in the middle school because that's when kids are, at a tougher and rougher age and all that.
part of my feeling is that if you them to work through their problems while they're littler, then they won't have as many problems up there.
I think has to be at least a counselor
we just recently had a counselor at elementary.
We didn't even have counselors in elementary.
We have always, though, had three at middle schools because we had about a thousand kids
they divided them up between three counselors
for a good while every year they'd have a different counselor
they decided that didn't work.
they started, dividing the kids up so that a counselor stays with her group of counselees
they do that here.
through all three years of middle school.
I think that would give them more security in going to the counselor.
If they have a rapport with their counselor.
if they don't,
I hope they have the flexibility to be able to change
To change,
a child that really is in need of counseling help if they absolutely refuse to work with them.
occasionally that happens.
it is frightening
it certainly is.
education is the key to our future
if we have children who are not getting their education, for one reason or another, then what are we going to do with them?
That's right .
What's going to happen to them?
Are they going to be able to, work at other kind of menial jobs
are they going to be the thieves and the people
in prison.
our prisons are filling up faster then we can build them.
That's no good.
I'm on that, campus strategic planning committee for my school.
one of the,
they have all these different names for things, strategies and all these different things.
anyway, one of the key things was we believed that the public education is the best economic value.
Then I think they decided to strike economic.
Anyway, the point was, what happens when public education fails?
will then people go to private schools?
what kind of a situation do they get there
what are,
what kind of state are we in most people are going to private schools.
I think, one thing that we'll see is that we won't be educating everybody.
There will be a lot of people who will not get even a menial education like in other countries of the world
where they don't try to educate everyone.
That's one of the things that we do.
We try to educate everyone.
That's right.
That's right.
We're the only country in the world that does.
let everyone have an opportunity to reach higher education
huh .
if they're willing, to work
and have, some ability.
They can do that.
one of the Plano school district's, goals is that they will graduate every child is here in the ninth grade,
I believe
it's something like that,
it's worded.
I don't know .
if we can keep them in school.
then helps a lot.
so important,
I think the gang violence is scaring everyone to death too.
that new movie,
It's scary to me.
That new movie out,
really a frightening situation.
I guess we're both lucky.
We are.
To be in situations and schools where we don't see that.
My folks talk about it a lot in Illinois.
My mother was is was teacher for years and years
they live in Peoria, Illinois,
their talking a lot about school situation there, too. *
shall we wrap it up?
I would imagine that we've talked the amount of time necessary.
I think we have to.
I'll see you when we see you.
We were in, Austin yesterday.
The reason that I wasn't at church
we went to hear, James wind ensemble concert
they left this morning for, England.
how exciting.
Isn't that wonderful?
that is wonderful.
What an experience.
the university ...
Hi, Nancy.
H ,
do you do a lot of dining out?
we don't although we enjoy it.
we do it more when we have company come.
what about you?
we do dining out.
do a lot of cooking
mostly when we go out, it's my husband and I,
don't go out too often as a family, unless it's a fast food kind of thing.
we do enjoy dining out.
One of our favorite places here the Dallas area is Atlantic Cafe.
I don't know if you, have you ever been there?
I've heard of that
I haven't been there.
about is that?
actually there's the Atlantic Cafe and Cafe Pacific, and,
been to Cafe Pacific.
Have you?
down in, Highland Park.
It's Highland Park Village.
Did you like it?
I love it .
Before we moved to,
the area, my brother, lived in Dallas for a number of years
we came up one time when my father was visiting
we all ate there
their seafood was wonderful.
It really is a great place.
where is the Atlantic Cafe?
Atlantic Cafe is down McKinney.
the two, guy who owns the Cafe Pacific and guy who owns the Atlantic Cafe, were partners in the Atlantic Cafe.
the guy started Cafe Pacific.
I loved them both.
I really do.
I think they're wonderful.
That's our favorite.
what we'd really like, we just have casual evening is Houston's.
Have you been there?
I've heard that's really good, too,
It's wonderful.
The only thing is you have to wait.
to expect to wait at least an hour.
you have to go knowing you're going to be sitting there there for an hour waiting to get in.
long as you know that , it's okay.
they have, I think, just about the best prime rib
in the area.
I love it.
my husband really likes their ribs.
it's hysterical.
We go in
we sit there for an hour waiting to get in
we get there
we don't even look at the menu .
You know right away what you want .
I know right away want.
we really enjoy prime rib, too,
actually Steak And Ale out here,
we've gone to,
my in laws also enjoy prime rib, when they've
had some of their specials on Sunday, Monday, or Tuesday night
the time we went the prime rib was really good.
Was it?
I've been there for like, lunch
I've never been there for dinner.
it was good,
yeah .
that's great.
Another nice place prime rib is Baby Doe's
I've heard about that, too
Maxwell's nice,
have you been there?
out even less than I realize .
I didn't think we ate out very often .
Baby Doe's is nice.
Oh .
one place I'd never been that I would really like to go to, is Lawry's.
I've heard that's real good,
Lawry's Prime Rib?
heard that, too.
never been there
I've heard it's real good.
Have you been to the little, not for prime rib but the Cafe De France, right here
on Central Expressway? *
they have one in Richardson that I've been to.
okay. *
they have real nice lunches.
been there for lunch?
primarily lunch, and breakfast sometimes
during the week they often have, limited menu choice but, very reasonable complete dinners for six ninety nine that included
the soup salad
entrees and accompaniments and dessert
my husband and I like veal,
a lot
their veal dishes have been good.
We've tried different ones when they've had them as one of the
The specials.
Have you ever been to Biffin's?
I keep hearing about it.
I keep hearing the advertisements of it
they keep saying, it's wonderful, it's wonderful.
I have not been over there
I was thinking, it's supposed to be a family place over near Plano Super Bowl.
not been there.
I haven't either,
one place,
I've only been there for lunch,
I went with a friend,
we met her husband, down on Greenville,
down near the Highway Twelve area, is Gershwin's,
I've been there.
just we ,
That was nice .
It was
we had the,
we both enjoy mushroom soup
Linda had told me they had the best mushroom soup
they did.
It was wonderful
we just had soup and salad so we could make room for the dessert ,
which was a chocolate sack.
I don't know if you tried
s ,
I've heard of it.
it's made,
it's all chocolate, made like a paper bag
it's filled with what, whip cream
strawberries and something?
it had a sponge cake *
and whip cream
it had strawberries, kiwis, and raspberries
in a raspberry, puree
we shared one, the three of us
it was plenty because it was very rich
I wished I'd had a camera.
It was beautiful .
I bet it was.
I bet it was.
The last time we went to Cafe Pacific, it was Father's Day,
we took another friend with us
for dessert we thought we had just stuffed ourselves .
a berry assortment.
and blueberries strawberries on a plate with a custard on the bottom.
they did, the raspberry puree, just kind of like decoration on the,
you know, how they do the plates real fancy with the decorations and then
Yeah .
piled the berries and shaved chocolate on top of it
it was outstanding.
It sounds wonderful.
It was relatively simple
it was good.
It was really good.
that's, one of the things I do enjoy when you get a good restaurant.
I love fresh berries.
fruits are always exceptional.
they must have a special source for getting them because even at the Farmer's Market,
You can't find them.
you can't find them
like that
originally from Connecticut
I was home a few years ago
my sister and brother in law were going to take us out for dinner
I was really amazed,
restaurants up there were kind of quaint.
they were real, real pretty
they lacked, the service
they lacked just the, I don't know.
The restaurants down here seem like they have,
I guess there's so much competition that they, really have to be good.
I thought I would really miss that.
I would, too,
we don't go out very often.
When we do go out, in a way it's like a little mini vacation I guess,
a whole experience.
Of course you want the food to be good
the atmosphere and service I think, are important,
in order to survive in this area , I think they have to be good.
Because the ones that aren't so good make it.
that reminded me of a place for lunch that's a little off the beaten track
it is wonderful.
It's called Cafe Max
it's at Plano Road and Campbell.
They have the most wonderful salads.
They do what they call a salad sampler which easily could feed two or three.
my favorite type of music is classical music,
enjoy orchestral classical music
I enjoy classical guitar and classical piano,
that's my favorite type.
probably the favorite instrument would be, the violin.
my favorite,
don't really have a favorite,
like everything basically.
I guess if I had to pick, it would be pop, I would think,
I like everything.
it's kind of hard to choose sometimes.
I guess sometime although I don't feel like I have a good understanding of it, or feel for maybe what's good jazz and what's not,
I enjoy it
sometimes I enjoy listening to, fiddle music.
We were in Colorado recently
we heard this fiddler
it's kind of fun to listen to the
fiddle (( pans )) .
I grew up next door to, the Richardson Symphony Orchestra leader
Chris Xeros.
you lucky thing.
we used to go and listen to them all the time
my parents still do.
I grew up with a lot of his music, what not.
my parents are,
especially my dad, likes a lot of classical music
he introduced my brother and I both, to a lot of it.
Chris Xeros .
You grew up with his children, too, then?
Sure did.
small world,
We all went to high school together
we're still in contact with each other.
We all go back to parents' houses on the weekends, and what not
actually, I used to play in the Richardson Symphony,
I played violin in the orchestra for several years
yeah .
It is a small world isn't it?
small world.
know Chris .
he's a pretty nice guy.
Most of the time .
had to work for him
I never would want to work for him.
life just took different turns here
it just didn't work out to do that now.
about ready to retire, another year
he sure is,
he just became a grandfather.
I heard that.
it's his daughter that,
they just had the baby's christening
It was really nice so ,
Was it a boy or a girl?
He's a little boy .
What did they name him?
I can't,
a ,
it's like Elijah, or something like that.
I keep forgetting, she named him.
His middle name is Chris, or Christopher for
Of course.
for her daddy,
, I think it's Elijah .
It starts with an E.
I can't remember .
you've heard the Richardson Symphony?
we've heard them and, it real well, of course .
Do you have a favorite instrument?
actually one of my favorite instruments is a harpsichord.
I really like those,
in fact, I had a harpsichord played at my wedding.
did you?
Which was real nice.
I got married, during the Christmas season
we played, old fashioned Christmas carols instead of normal wedding marches and what not,
it was real nice,
I liked that a lot.
I liked the sound of the harpsichord.
it played by itself?
somebody played it .
you didn't have oboe or something with it?
Just by itself,
just by itself.
It was real nice.
I bet that was nice.
It went well,
it was a change, from your traditional, normal, stuff, since it was Christmas time we had the church decorated with Christmas hollies and poinsettias and, stuff like that
C and
so, we did the harpsichord with old time traditional Christmas carols,
the bouncy,
sing along kind but
some of the ones that
some, I don't even, I recognize melodies, and whatnot,
I didn't recognize the name.
it was real nice.
the violin a string quartet that often plays at weddings.
I always think it's a nice break from the traditional organ or piano.
it nice.
It makes, you can say classy
it makes an elegant wedding to have
It does.
something else.
It really does
it has such a different sound to it, anyway.
It's almost,
I don't know the way it vibrates,
it's kind of haunting, some of the notes .
like it.
I don't know how else to explain.
we've got friends that are in the music business that go around Dallas,
they're, called Odessa.
It's a husband and wife team that we've known for years
we try to make contact with them periodically to see what's going on and stuff, too,
we've had a lot of stuff, friends things to do with music that constant,
my husband's real big into music, too,
He doesn't play anything,
he just likes to listen.
my dad and
my kids are now
my oldest is getting to the point where he likes certain types of music and favorite songs and when they come on we have to turn the radio up full blast
Now the school in your city,
offer, band, or some of the instruments?
oldest is only nine.
hasn't really gotten into, that yet.
They have choir that they go to, music
class that they go to
he's not old enough yet to get into the band yet.
I think that starts in sixth grade.
I don't know.
he, the only thing he's shown interest in wanting to play is the drums
brother plays,
know if he's really serious about it yet or not ,
it's just one of those things I'm just going to wait and see if he's interested
in something,
you got a little ways to go, too .
(( Right )) .
just a little bit .
oldest is eight
started her on piano
it's a lot of work to see that she's prepared
it's been fun,
it's been fun,
I feel like I've learned a lot about the piano.
I've learned a lot about playing the piano.
it kind of makes me listen a little closer the piano when I hear it at other places, or when I, someone playing.
I sort of watch their technique, too, see if it corresponds up to what she's learning.
it's been fun.
I don't know if any of mine will be interested in it
Is, kind of fun.
It's best done when you have leisure time
I had more of that in my childhood days than I have now .
I grew up in an area that, was just a few feet from a rather large lake, and a few more miles from that was a even larger lake
we had a variety of boats at our disposal .
I worked for a camp for a number of years.
My father was on staff there,
we had every kind of things from canoes to paddle boats, sailboats, speedboats,
you name it, they had it
we did a lot of
I think, the thing I liked the best was, we spent about a summer
couple of guys, restored an old wooden boat that was built back in the mid thirties and got a new canvas sail for it and had a real old four foot center board that went down in the middle to keep you upright when the waves,
the wind came from the side
we got that thing in the water and had a real good time with it.
If you ever got it dumped over, though, it was a mess to get back up.
It wasn't like the newer ones that have nice chambers that keep it afloat or keep it, upright again.
This one you had to work with.
You get out of the water again and get it upright.
sailing kind of nice to learn the maneuvers you had to make to work your way down a lake or work back up against wind, as it were, tacking back and forth
more than once we'd get out there on a really stormy day
the storm or the wind was due to the front blowing
as soon as the front came over, it was calm. So you're out in the middle of nowhere with a paddle *
you paddle your way back in and hope it doesn't start raining on you right away.
that didn't always work.
We oftentimes got wet, .
a hobby to have.
Nowadays I don't think I could afford the boat or the time, nor do we live that close to a lake anymore,
things change, I guess.
What are your memories of boating,
about the only memories that I have of boating,
my husband's family had motor boat, when we got engaged
they took us out on the lake several times.
I really did enjoy that.
don't know that I ever learned to drive it or anything,
we did some water skiing, of course, driving around the lake in the boat just the basic safety rules and things I found real interesting.
just didn't patrol you like they did with the automobile or whatever.
laws were there
if you didn't obey them,
there were a lot of accidents, I guess.
That's true.
I found the motor boating was real fun.
I remember learning how to ski,
I guess I was seven or eight years old
the lake that we learned on was the smaller of the two that we had access to
it was maybe fifteen, twenty acres
a lot of, turtles in it.
I got all ready to go
I was down in the water set to go
just as that boat took off, a turtle bit me in the middle of the back.
Oh .
It didn't hurt too much,
it bit enough to where I let go.
the boat went off without me
I reached back there and pushed him away and got out of the water while
it didn't even leave a mark.
It was just a little nibble
I told everybody what happened
they go, yeah, sure,
I get back down in there
I'll be if he didn't do it again.
This time a little earlier I had let go before then and, before they took off this time swatted him away.
I moved over few feet in the water and got out of his little realm where he was living underneath the dock and, managed to get up.
Didn't go very far,
I got up.
was a long skiing career,
now I've gotten to where skiing is just kind of wears me out more than it does thrill me.
done about all I dare do on skis. skiing on one and jumping around here and there
I know how you can get injured doing much more than that
I just can't risk it right now being a head of the family and the breadwinner and all that.
Just, can't take the risk I did as a dumb teenager, I guess .
life just changes a little bit in that respect .
I'd kind of like, someday, to maybe end up on a pair of skis doesn't have a,
what they call trick skis.
They'll allow you to ski backwards.
I haven't to get a hold on that, craft yet,
That sounds like a real challenge.
would be kind of nice.
I hadn't quite figured out,
I don't have anybody to teach me either.
That's another little thing.
You need somebody to kind of tell you what to do,
just from what I've seen, you just kind of work your way up to it and turn around real quick , Grab the rope behind you and then just let go real quick and let it whip you around.
I don't know,
maybe someday get back to that the kids are up and grown and the monies are there to get away for times on end, weekend or something.
my son,
Where is your favorite place to go?
we haven't traveled outside the United States that much.
we usually take family type vacations.
We're looking forward to one in October to Disneyworld in Florida.
that's great.
We have a nine year old.
Have you ever been there?
both of my kids were much younger.
this time we're going to be going with just one daughter
she's nine,
it ought to just be a ball.
that's a perfect age
for Disneyworld.
I think so, too.
that's great.
we've been there a number of times
we're going next year.
We have a business trip every fall.
we go on a lot of business trips.
I don't work.
you travel a lot.
we do.
We g ,
my husband travels a couple times a month
in the position he's in, they don't care if I go along.
it's great.
I just kind of join up when it's something interesting
Disneyworld is the one for a week next year
it will be at this time of the year
this year next Saturday for New Orleans.
that will be fun, too.
you ever been there?
We went years ago.
We haven't been lately
I know they've changed it a lot and upgraded everything,
we used to have a lot of fun there.
we went there once.
In fact, we had been in Dallas
we were on our way home
we were driving
we said let's go to New Orleans.
when he said, this year, I have a week there on project
he's going to be,
I said, I'll going along,
I hope it's swimming season
it wasn't a tremendous to do.
That I wanted to do there.
if you don't like the night life and the antique shopping, there isn't much there,
that can be fun.
we do like the night life, to an extent
they do have a Mardi Gras night planned.
I'm kind of anxious for that,
yours to Disneyworld sounds a little bit better.
Did you know that next week there's several T V shows coming from there in celebration of their anniversary.
I know this is a real good time to go, because they are having so many activities and special shows.
with a daughter, nine, it is just,
she's old enough to really grasp
the meaning behind,
Be excited about all of it.
if you're working, then you're probably on a limited amount of time per year that you can go.
not really,
we're doing the same thing. Tying it in with my husband's business trip
I just save vacation for things like that.
just travel whenever we can.
I really, I think travel ,
when I heard my topic today, I thought, okay
How easy .
really at our point of life our children are grown
it has just worked out really well with this, position he's in.
Because I can go at a spur of the moment or what have you
it depends where he's going whether or not I decide to go along
I like to travel
I don't mind the pool life at all
during the day.
I like to sight see
I love to shop.
it's ,
that's perfect.
What more could you ask for?
That's right,
got to pick and choose the places.
one of my very favorite is Las Vegas.
I would have to say we both end up going to Las Vegas, probably once every maybe year and a half.
presently we have quite a few frequent flyer miles
I've just requested that they send us two of our coach tickets
we have a lot of flying with Continental
they're recommending that you use those because they don't know the future of Continental.
it's kind of shaky.
I said now that we have all the miles,
we better start using them.
That's true.
It really is.
we are thinking that we might go to Las Vegas during the winter this year sometime for just kind of a quick trip.
when we normally go that way, we like to go to California at the same time, because we really don't get out there as often as you could probably
from Texas.
Our last big trip, we drove through New Mexico and Colorado and went to the Grand Canyon back through Silverton and Durango
it was fun.
It was so relaxing and a really neat part of the country
the kids were old enough to really enjoy it.
I think that's a good trip.
really, for the children to learn as well for a family vacation that would be excellent.
Now we did, what we sometimes do since we are in Ohio
it takes a while just to even get to more picturesque part of the country,
we will fly to something like,
once we flew to Colorado to Denver
we rented a car for two weeks
we went through the northern route and through Utah
and as far west as Las Vegas
we returned through, New Mexico that you just mentioned.
it was
it was just great.
too much to see really.
think the way to,
I work at T I
we have, of course, started here
I haven't gotten called yet,
I feel that good they feel like there is a vast majority of the people at the company doing drugs.
Do they feel that way?
I think that they thought that there was a lot of drug usage here at T I,
I think our latest said something like ninety nine point nine eight percent were, testing negative on all the dru ,
all the testing.
think it's a good idea just because I'm opposed to
to the drugs.
I think it can cause a lot of problems even though they think they can handle it.
I don't know,
I don't really liken it to alcohol
yet that can be carried to an extreme, too.
I think it's a good idea
I think just the idea you may be tested
might keep you off of them or get you off of them because you're,
I don't know that their job would be at risk,
I think they may put them into some sort of a program to get them off of drugs.
I would think that,
is that how they do it at T I maybe.
at T I, if you get called in and you test positive for drugs, then you're put on a program
you go through the program
you're called like six months after you complete the
if you test positive, then you're terminated.
, I guess draw a hard line ,
I'm in favor that type of thing.
That, have people out there that are responsible for certain things
you expect them to do their job
That's right.
is possible they can't do as good a job, as they might do.
of course they can also cause injury to other people.
not, fully functional mentally while they're doing their job. They could cause
you never know
serious injury to
they could just go off the deep end
on something
that whatever
they're taking at the time
it would be, out of the question.
I guess you can, get the wrong kind of stuff and kill yourself
That's right.
just by having a wrong mix of or watered down or
or whatever, all kinds.
I sub in the schools
I've, had a,
they talk a lot about
drugs there
I think it's good that they're trying to start some programs down in the elementary schools.
I think they can test all they want for drugs
if they need to do that as a condition for employment
I know many of them are doing it.
I know my son has had to do it for both Sam's and Wal Mart
I don't know how many others are doing that
I think that's good
so many of the kids that are on them are sort of bums that they need to get their life straightened up at
That's right.
an early age
, I don't know,
it's just a problem that no one is sure just how to handle
I think.
I think personally I'm for it.
There's several reason why could think of right now why we shouldn't have it such as drug testing,
they say, runs approximately a thousand dollars a person every time you do it.
It's that high?
it's very expensive.
I didn't realize
it was that expensive.
It's not like a normal urinalysis
it's very expensive to run them.
I didn't get a raise this year,
nobody in our company got a raise.
Just lucky to have jobs.
they spend all the money on drug testing
if they weren't spending all the money on drug testing, people could have got a raise.
I think that's more of a personal view of mine
other than yes, sir, we should have drug testing because there's really a problem
I know that.
I have other views to it.
didn't think it was that expensive because my son was in probably a week and a half period
Sam's and Wal Mart owned by the same people
he took one Wal Mart
for job hiring
Sam's called him
he took another one
don't know why they both made him do that
since it was so close together.
I can see if ,
if it's a thousand dollars, that's a thousand dollars they wasted.
Their's might not run a thousand dollars. *
from what I understanding here at T I, they run close to a thousand dollars an employee.
maybe they run,
I don't know,
that's just guessing it.
Maybe they run a lot of other tests,
maybe it's under a health
type program that it
it, it would catch a lot of things.
just can't imagine
for all pub ,
them screening all these employees, paying a thousand dollars to get them.
have you done any painting projects lately?
this is a great topic for me,
because I just did my first two painting projects ever.
Was a big deal
What kind of
two little deals,
painting was it?
The first one,
I helped someone repaint an apartment,
it was very easy.
I've never painted anyth ,
I always thought it would be,
you'd have to hire someone if you needed to paint inside your house or something
I know I can do it.
the second one was I bought some toys craft fair.
They're unfinished wooden book ends and stuff for a little girl for Christmas,
I decided to paint them,
that wasn't as easy as painting the apartment .
what kind of paint did you use for the, bookends?
that's half the problem right there is that a oil base,
I had to get,
when I painted them, I didn't realize that we didn't have any turpentine or paint thinner or anything in the house.
I all over my hands.
At first I didn't realize,
I had never painted anything,
I didn't realize
that I needed that.
I kind of knew, in the back of my mind,
you can't use oil on wood?
you can use it on wood,
I just had it all over my hands,
I went to wash the brushes out, and, wash my hands,
you can't wash it off with water.
You have to get solution
you had to go around with paint all over you,
I had to drive to the store
temporarily, anyway.
I had to drive to the store with paper towels all over my hands to go buy
some paint thinner, everything like that,
downstairs in the apartment, a latex base,
you can drip it on,
if you dripped it on something, as long as you wiped it up, it was real easy to clean.
that what you usually use in the house, is latex?
just like
the same with the toys,
it's just important to look for one that doesn't have lead in it,
it says Safe for Children, and all that.
I heard about that.
I guess a friend of mine had a,
just started up a day care center,
real strict, restrictions, was the fact that she had to have a special kind of paint that was fire proof and lead free and all that other good stuff
she had that done.
Have you painted anything recently.
so to speak, I had to paint inside of this warehouse thing *
Wow, was it huge?
that you keep some, farm equipment in
what I had to do is just coat this bare wood with a sealer,
I had this big five gallon jug,
it was like paint thinner.
looked just like, it was the viscosity of paint thinner
you just took a roller and put it on there,
if you saw that the wood was getting wet, all you needed.
it was,
it used all of it.
I guess it was about three hundred yards worth.
I guess it worked out.
It was pretty easy, actually.
I think though, we're lucky that we didn't have to do any detail work, because I don't know if I could,
I don't know,
I don't know,
must be difficult,
what about the trim in your house?
Did you have to do that?
I just, what,
we had a couple of different size brushes
real easy,
I went around the trim,
if it,
there was wall paper,
I was just the trim around the doors and windows
there was wall paper
if we got it on the wall paper a little bit, we just wipe it right away before it dried,
it came right off
there was no major mistakes,
there was,
Did you have, one coat or two?
two, actually
there was,
around the windows, if you got it on the glass, we let it dry and scraped it after that
that would be really saver.
if you just,
we didn't tape anything,
we weren't that careful,
it wasn't,
I don't know, funny,
it's like, if you just go slow, that many mistakes
I didn't make that many mistakes,
me, I would have had to have taped the whole thing, and then brushed around the edges,
I'd have probably rolled it on.
have taken me forever.
Just because you'd be afraid to do it, or have you done it before.
the first time it'd probably would have taken me forever,
it wasn't,
if it was my own I would have,
my friend said, just go ahead, you just go ahead,
it's easy.
I said, Okay, it's your place,
how long did it take you all?
a couple of week ends
we would go down
two or three hours on the weekends,
there was two of you all?
doing all sorts of repairs,
just painting because I don't know how to do anything else .
that's easy enough.
there's a whole bunch of people.
now I feel like if I ever buy a house, I can probably paint, if nothing else.
I think I could probably do it
as long as the hardware store told me what to buy, then I could do it.
I went in to a hardware store to get paint for those toys,
the guy said, get this, it's a nice shiny gloss, which was true,
I didn't realize what, pain it is to clean the brushes and everything, if you don't have latex
I don't if
it's worth the shine,
how did you like that topic?
I don't know,
I've got mixed feelings about the topic.
Do you?
I don't.
I'm pretty opinionated about that and many other things as you well know.
I agree with it.
a company should be able to test employee any time they see fit.
don't think there's a place in our environment, in the work force for drugs, or alcohol either.
I don't believe in drugs or alcohol,
if you'll remember when the teachers had to take the T CAT
they were talking about drug testing us
we were laughing that we'd have to go to that examination to prove we could read and write with a specimen of urine
we found it belittling.
You did?
huh. I can sort of understand that,
not being a teacher, as you are, was not quite as sympathetic I probably would have been Kay were a teacher or something.
That's true.
then, at the same token, I'm not against
I look at airline pilots
bus drivers
people that really have other peoples' lives in their hands
That's right.
truck drivers
That's right.
it's supposed to be a huge problem with truck drivers using drugs
that's right
and alcohol,
I think it is a big problem with them using drugs
from what you read,
in those areas I really, do believe that maybe we should clean up our,
I think so
agree with it.
I know Kay's company,
they started it couple of years ago,
many of the people, even the professional people so against them doing that,
I thought, Jeez, to me it's quite simple,
you either need a job or you don't.
job is what provides all of your needs,
if they say, Hey, you can't do this work, I'd say, Hey, I agree, do that.
I think most of them have agreed to that now, although they didn't like it at first.
I think it's just like anything else, a new concept,
as I said, if I have to go to a testing area with my urine specimen I was insulted,
it is,
I can see where you would think,
that is belittling, I'd probably feel the same way if I had to do that. *
at the same token, in education we can't do testing on kids
that's true,
their rights are protected.
You bet.
gosh, would really raise a stink if that was to
not do the kids,
when we see them and they're, under the influence.
I agree with that.
I wouldn't be opposed to it at all,
it's just our bleeding heart liberals that would fight it and nail,
That's true.
Lynn, I've enjoyed talking with you.
I don't know how long we're supposed to carry on a conversation, do you?
It's three minutes,
the clicker comes in when it's time to,
we'd better keep talking because I've not heard it have we.
Have you heard it?
Anyway, we both sort of agree on it, don't we
about random testing.
do we agree, or unless it's not me .
here we go again,
If you agree that,
I believe that truck drivers and people that have,
even though teachers have other kids lives in their hands, if they come in stoned or they come in drunk
there was an incident in my children's high school, where a teacher stayed drunk,
Is that right?
You just don't think of that happening with teachers
I really don't,
when I think of drug testing, I'm thinking of the, outside of education.
we are as susceptible a society
as anybody else
I know that,
you don't think of that first hand, normally.
did you hear on the news where the teacher of the year was up for child molestation.
Isn't that,
isn't that
It was on the news tonight.
mind boggling,
it's mind bog ,
I agree with you,
I know teachers are just like everybody else, same problems
the same, good qualities as anybody else.
Then, I think, to shove, I'd probably be drug tested
it does,
think the benefit would be greater than the,
as I say, I'm sitting there fussing and fussing,
yet, I know of, one teacher who was an alcoholic
in school as well as, I presume out,
that was in your children's high school,
Isn't that amazing,
my children brought it to my attention.
I never
was there to see it.
if it was true there, I'm sure it's true with just about probably to some degree every school there is
they represent a pretty good,
that's not giving a good example to students.
certainly not,
certainly not,
they don't need that example
(( )) I missed a part of it.
We're to talk about what, lawns and gardens?
Lawn and garden work and what you enjoy and what kind of work you do.
a putterer.
I chose that topic because I really like gardening
as far as flowers and shrubs and just keeping a pretty yard.
it's very that I got this call because my wife just called me.
I was just in the shower after finishing mowing the lawn
and, mowing the lawn and removing some old petunias out of the garden,
this type of thing is working right in to start planting bulbs.
We've had a late fall
it seems like, the weather,
in fact today it's really warm,
many of the summer flowers are still pretty enough that you hate to pull them up,
you need to pretty soon.
that's the way this was.
petunias were really great.
Our mums beautiful,
had a frost up here.
down in (( )) for a week,
I don't know what happened last week
I'm sort of waiting for Indian Summer
I can get a lot of stuff down out here.
enjoy it.
we moved November and put the landscaping in year.
We came from nine years in a condo,
working in that condo, you didn't have to do anything
unless you really wanted to,
(( )) .
you have the chance to really create spread out.
I can't,
this is my house I think, I've owned,
it's interesting,
the only problem is that I do quite a bit of traveling,
it sort of gets away from me
if you're not with it.
enjoy most of it,
about this time of year getting a little old,
I start looking forward to, having other things to do with my
The grass
(( )) .
not growing so fast .
for me
I've been doing a lot of fertilizing.
We had a terrible summer,
we had a drought
took a lot of watering and a lot of fertilizing,
now it's really growing
I'm trying to establish a good growth
for the winter.
ours seems to have slowed down here.
We're not having to mow every week religiously
we're still fighting bugs, and ready to change some of summer flowers out
I still have caladiums that are pretty, which is a surprise this late in the year.
today, it's eighty five degrees
it's really strange,
I hear that from, my brother in law lives in Plano,
that'll change
Yeah .
real quick .
he always
We'll wish we'd planted bulbs and pansies already.
he waits until it gets about seventeen below up here
he calls us,
my gosh.
it's seventy degrees here in the sunshine.
Texas has gotten to where it's a real problem as far as plants, because our summers are so terribly hot
(( )) .
we have ice storms every year.
there just aren't that many plants and shrubs that can take both of those
Some of the things that used to be hardy are getting to where they don't make it through the two swings.
that is,
conditioned to it
have to be hardened to it
strange with me.
you think, Dallas, almost semitropical, you wouldn't have problem,
for the most part we don't,
we have usually just a pocket of really bad hot and really bad cold.
the summers have gotten where they're a lot hotter
ice storms really are stressful on all plants that we have around.
We've noticed that crepe myrtles don't do as well as they used to
do they.
and, pittosporum
that used to be the kind of things we could plant all the time
I love,
really take a chance with them freezing,
I love landscaping,
like I say, my brother in law (( )) . I get to Carrollton quite a bit.
I go there on business,
I really enjoy getting around and seeing the different areas with different gardens,
Texas is,
is very nice.
I really enjoy it there. The landscaping, the homes, the architecture, the whole thing
very enjoyable gardens,
my wife and I,
Except for the lack of trees, out where we are .
It was all cotton fields,
when we get to other parts of the country where the trees are so beautiful, we really miss it.
that we have,
Ohio's a very pretty state.
to Chicago,
we lived there for five years,
I remember the first time I took my wife there on a house hunt,
we were coming in
before the plane landed she looked out the window
(( )) there's no trees down there.
(( )) this is Illinois,
you're not.
when we got out to the area where we decided we were going to live and buy a house, there were no trees
because the farmers had cleared all the land
now all of a sudden it was being developed,
the first thing I did was planted all kinds of trees,
Very good.
discussion on child care.
Do you have any children?
they're all grown up.
Oh .
I work in a day care center
(( )) .
you know all about it then.
I enjoy it a lot.
It's been quite a few years.
I have grandchildren but, haven't really been into selecting child care for them,
it's been quite a few years since I've had to think about that.
Do they go to a day care center
do they stay at,
daughter that has three stays home
that's nice.
with her children,
one of my daughters has one
an aunt keeps the baby.
that's nice.
not really know how to go about selecting one nowadays,
I would imagine it's very hard.
think so.
I think it's hard to find a good day care.
I have worked ones that were not very good
in my opinion.
this one that I'm in now very good.
one of the key things is how many adults are there in ratio to the children.
in Pennsylvania for babies, that's what I work with, there has to be a one to four ratio at the most.
No more than four babies per care giver.
we keep it down to like two to one.
that's good.
that makes it a little easier to deal with.
I've always thought, it would be really tough.
What if you had a fire or something with babies?
I know.
You would have to be able to have enough,
you'd have to be able to get them all out.
What we do is we have these cribs in the back room
where they sleep that are, low to the ground
they're reenforced real strong
they'll sit four babies.
We would just lie them in there
they roll real well and maneuver.
That will get them out.
I hadn't thought about that.
I was thinking, my gosh, if they had very many babies, they couldn't possibly get them all out.
No .
you could put them in one of these cribs and then roll the crib out I guess.
that's neat.
that's certainly something we hope never happens.
do most of your day care workers really care about the children,
is it just a job for them?
Most really care, in this center, really care.
most everyone has a college degree in early childhood education.
really there's only like eight children per room
there's like two or care givers in each room.
that enables them to spend more time with the children.
Sometimes I feel like all I'm doing is changing diapers, giving bottles, and putting babies down for a nap.
it's nice to be able to play with them and really get to know them.
It's easy to get attached to them too.
go with this center where you work?
in my room they go from eight weeks to nine months.
throughout the center it goes up to age twelve.
I have the young ones in my room.
You've got the little bitty ones.
Those are the, probably group to have.
They don't complain too much .
they're fun.
They are a lot of fun.
Babies are fun,
they're not quite big enough to be getting into everything yet,
Not quite.
It's a,
when they start to crawl they try to climb up on things
you have to be real careful is baby proof.
all the doors have latches and stuff so they can't get into anything
they try.
Do you
think there's very many really good day care centers around your area?
In my area
live in a college town in Penn State University
there is college educated people and stuff that are in the centers that really seem to have an idea of what's going on.
in general though been really disappointed with a lot
of other centers I've worked at,
it's not my choice for I have children
some people don't have a choice.
Sometimes it's a have to.
I hear a lot of the girls I work with, constantly,
I wish I could find someplace I really felt good about.
Most of them don't really feel that it's a great place to leave their kids.
That is sad.
it's really bad,
One of the girls she was leaving hers at where she felt like was a really good place,
they called her one afternoon and said, we thought we'd better call and tell you before you got over here.
Lacy fell asleep on the bus after our field trip today,
we just now found her.
They had left her on the bus closed up all afternoon.
my God.
immediately she says, I can't have any confidence in them anymore,
if they'll take a group of kids to the zoo or somewhere and then come back and not even count them and realize they're one short.
one of the teachers happened to walk by and see her pounding on the window trying to get out of the bus.
my God.
this was four hours later,
that poor child.
D you know, i ,
what do you do?
That's awful.
she has switched to a different center now
just to let you know, I have, two, children of my own.
I've got two boys, one four year old one two years old,
I'm just starting out.
yes .
I have two boys who are twenty eight and twenty four
Wow .
and a daughter who is twelve.
that's quite a spread .
Same husband, everything.
That's great.
I guess, in one of the things I like to do with my boys I get home is, I like to try and spend a lot of time with them.
they're not very old,
they couldn't do a whole lot, yet.
they like to, spend time with me.
We just, just do various things, nothing really.
They like to be outside as much as possible.
If it's not raining.
the weather's trying to turn now
you down here in Texas?
I'm, I'm in, Dallas.
You know what I meant with rain, .
Okay, ,
noticed is that, it's always too easy to just plop your kids down in front of the T V and let them watch movies play video games or something.
can you hold on just a sec ,
I have to answer a business phone .
I hate to do it on this call.
That's okay.
Good morning, A R E, this is Arlene Lister .
It was just a recorded message,
on our business phone anyway.
I'm sorry,
keep going.
it's okay.
that was the thing that noticed that, I know a that a tendency to do the same thing.
one of the things we try to do is we try to avoid doing that as much as possible.
Although it really is very easy to do that type of thing. Just plop them down in front of the T V and let them be, entertained that way.
seeing as you've got
some older children, wondering, how did you handle that,
when they were growing up?
was not nearly as much of it.
In fact, think things quite a bit different.
when big kids little, all the mothers were home.
kids got up in the morning and ate breakfast and poked around
when they felt like it, they went out to play,
when they little like that.
think it's gotten, very different.
When my second one was little, they were coming out with SESAME STREET
which he started watching
other than that, not educational T V
you got some cartoons
that was it,
were never that interested in it anyway.
take their trucks out in the backyard ,
go out and play and stuff.
we always did, just, to the park for walks
and to the zoo and museum.
We did a lot of stuff like that
our kids.
course, when they got bigger, they were both quite into sports
whatever, they would do, we'd go along with
, a girl is very different .
We have ,
a girl would like you to spend time with her going shopping .
Right .
they're different,
y ,
kind of the same thing, our,
she now,
lot of time spent with her,
she's so busy
huh .
going to,
last night was a band concert
she plays on her school volleyball team and, stuff like that.
still, like to pack up, just go someplace for the day
or, just stuff like that.
One of our older kids now is going to graduate school down at College Station
that's nice.
we go down there fairly often, for a weekend for, family get togethers and stuff like that.
That's great.
That's great.
I know like to get into do more camping and outings and things.
I think we probably will soon as the boys get a little
bit older.
for right now, they don't,
just getting out in the front, and just being outside is good for them
they like
just being outside.
think, our kids just always dearly loved that, play bounce the ball, or
course, when our big ones were little, we lived up north,
this time of the year the fun thing was to go out and swoosh around in the leaves ,
That's true,
you don't see many leaves around Dallas.
very different
stick them on sleds.
we had a pond across the street
from little on,
so different down here where go take lessons to learn to ice skate or something.
when our kids were little got them a pair of skates .
what kind of car, are you thinking of buying next?
more than likely, it's going to be a Chrysler.
You like the Chrysler products, do you?
Chrysler LeBaron,
It won't be a Ford.
I've got a Ford Mustang now,
I hate it.
Do you really?
What year is it?
It's a eighty eight.
why don't you like the Mustang?
I've had one problem with it after the other.
I'll be darned.
peeling off of it,
there's no reason for it, *
you know the old sayings about Fords, what they stand for.
Fix or repair daily *
There you go.
or find them dead.
my electrical system shorted out two or three times,
it's been torn up since April,
luckily, everything was under warranty,
it's only costing a hundred and forty dollars to get it fixed.
It would have been two thousand .
had Oldsmobiles, and, been very, happy with Oldsmobiles,
my wife thought she wanted to get a Ford Mustang
she kind of changed her mind and thinks her next car ought to be one of those, Mitsubishi Eclipses.
She real ,
are nice cars.
She those.
She has a sister that lives in, Phoenix that has one and, really, enjoys it.
things do you consider when you buy a car?
the gas mileage for one thing,
I've always had stick shift.
be automatic.
I see.
I hate driving anyway,
changing gears at stop lights and stuff is really getting on my nerves now.
especially when you're in high traffic areas
and have to mess with that all the time.
when you work nine to five, or eight to five, and you're in rush hour traffic to and from work, unfortunately.
That makes it very frustrating.
I look,
one of the things with Chrysler right now warranties that they have,
feel like their,
everybody I've talked to that owns one, has been real pleased with it,
I like driver's air bag,
I like that.
Now this is a LeBaron?
all Chrysler products has it in there,
LeBaron would be the next car I get,
I sure like those rag top LeBarons,
they really look sporty.
that too,
couldn't afford the insurance on one of those .
we always,
this last Oldsmobile we bought, it's an eighty seven,
we bought it in eighty eight, right at the end of the year when they were trying to get rid of them
a real good interest rate,
when they're trying to get rid of those cars at the end of the year like that, they really come down on their prices
we looked around at used cars,
we really couldn't, afford the payments on a used car,
if you go to the bank and try to get a loan, they want to charge twelve, thirteen percent,
we ended up, I think, with a four and a half percent interest rate on a brand new car, and the payments.
that's what I'm paying on mine now.
I had to get a first time,
my dad's always cosigned loans, or whatever,
this is one, when I bought,
I got my Mustang this time by myself, because I got on my own, or whatever,
I had said,
said it had to be a first time buyer's car or whatever,
they're charging me unreasonable (( )) interest,
I've got eight more payments
it's paid for.
that's great.
the eighty eights first came out,
it's a good car, I got in eighty seven, I guess, in November or something like that,
when our kids were younger we really wanted a two door.
Our first car was an Oldsmobile back in seventy seven.
It was a two door Cutlass Supreme,
it just happened that when we looked for new car, they had a thing going with Oldsmobile
if you'd buy new Oldsmobile they'd give you four hundred rebate, because it was their seventy fifth anniversary.
I belie ,
seventy fifth anniversary.
in addition to everything else we got off the car, all we had to do is show them our, papers on our first car,
they gave us another four hundred dollars off on it.
got a four door this time,
I sort of went more for comfort factor,
I liked the smaller cars,
I'm a bigger person,
really like comfort, driving along the road and stuff.
that's another big factor of mine.
car I get's going to be a four door too. Something with some room.
Mustang is two door with bucket seats,
you buy groceries and stuff like that.
if you try to take anybody, go to the show or go out for supper, and you go as a foursome,
what do you feel are some of the main problems?
urban area.
I'm in Dallas.
we're finding that crime is going up very quickly and has become a major problem, even a more major problem.
in Dallas, some of the major problems,
drugs seems to be to quite a bit of the crime we have now.
There is a lot of theft, a lot of assault dealing with, people trying to get money for drugs.
I think that's a national problem, though.
It's not unique,
pretty bad here, too.
We've had a lot of murders drug related and stuff.
In Durham, which is right next to Raleigh.
now, we're pretty close to the golden triangle, aren't you?
Durham, Raleigh, and Chapel Hill is the triangle.
research triangle
and all of that.
I'm sure you have a lot of students there, and a lot of researchers
may have little better economic climate,
in all your cities now, it seems like is crowd that's really effected by this bill.
really, it's,
I've seen in more in Durham than I have in Raleigh
or Chapel Hill.
Chapel Hill is kind of ritzy city or whatever.
it's kind of,
sure there is problems with it,
it has a pretty low crime rate. Durham has probably got the worst.
They've had forty eight murders since the beginning of the year.
over half of it has been drug related.
here, I'm not sure how many Dallas has had.
Houston is averaging about two a week or three or four,
don't know.
number every week.
Dallas is having quite a few.
Seems like most of ours are occurring in late at night like I say, drug related.
I guess the other thing was that are causing a lot of the crime now is the decrease in values.
Seems like lot of people don't hold human life quite as high as perhaps they used to.
economy is so bad
The economy is lousy .
many people have been laid off and stuff.
They've done special stories on the news, local news here.
We had a lot of bank robberies and break ins and stuff.
I know, like a week or so ago,
I live town house, which is,
it's a pretty nice neighborhood
this lady was going to work,
she came home and everything in her house was total gone, light fixtures, everything.
nobody thought any different,
they just thought she was moving.
It was a moving man pulled right up to her house, broke in and stole everything she owned .
Boy takes someone who is bold to do that.
it's pretty bad .
now, do you find that security is very good in a town home?
I would say so for the majority in my little section of the neighborhood because there is always somebody at home
we all know one another
on our one little section of the street we all know one another and know that we're not moving and different things like that.
I'm probably youngest people that live over here.
I see.
Most people retired
in their forties whatever.
I'm in my twenties,
I'm out more than they are,
they're at home at night,
I really don't worry about anything.
I think you hit on one point there is you know each other.
in a neighborhood where we try to keep up with everything.
I am, about three blocks off a major road and, a couple of blocks off another road that kind of runs,
I guess you would say the neighborhood road, it runs between the high school and commercial districts
I'm over the northeast part of Dallas.
It's nice neighborhood.
The houses here, before the recession were running two hundred thousand or so
course, everything's down ten to twenty percent now.
that's the same thing here.
we have,
thing that effects us is we have apartments that are probably about a half mile away
now the economy is bad,
they have trouble keeping those full
they've dropped the,
they're not nearly as selective as they used to be.
course, that's kind of like a cancer in an apartment complex.
You start letting that happen and they go down
before you know it you have drugs and a lot of other things
I'm sure that aggravates it also.
unemployment now in Dallas, or in Texas is up around six point,
I guess we're supposed to talk about what's being done about recycling.
lots, right?
Right .
do you do, now?
we have saved our newspapers for years and years
because the, Boy Scouts
our boys have been involved in have, had a huge recycling bin, over at Resurrection Lutheran Church
we've done that for quite some time,
since the price of paper has gone down
it's about a fifth of what it used to be
the Boy Scout troop quit doing it when the City took it over.
now we just put ours out for the City of Plano.
Do you live in Plano?
I do.
I'm so glad when they brought out those recycling bins.
Have you had yours now?
Although about a week ago some of my volunteer mothers that, work in the library for me said they hadn't gotten theirs.
that's why I asked you.
I guess
it does go in cycles, *
not everyone got theirs right away.
was so relieved because I've been making a real concerted effort, recycling the aluminum and
the newspapers and even got into plastic because Wal Mart collected it.
we used
to take ours there.
my garage was just getting overwhelmed.
I know.
of course, I didn't go weekly,
it became quite a big
I'm really glad they do it.
I do news, mostly newspapers and, plastic two liter diet Coke bottles .
And aluminum cans some,
I don't use as many of those.
I guess the ones that are hard to convince yourself to do are the ones to wash out .
I found out after washing out many a peanut butter jar that they're not a recycling number one or two.
it was wasting a lot of time. *
Wasting all your time and effort and,
Yeah. *
Putting it in there.
Thinking I was safe in buying those jars as far as the environment was concerned.
not that hard now that I've got this
Got your routine down.
system under control.
I guess there are some places, in the north, in particular that, have a real definite way of encouraging you to recycle
for your garbage pick up by the weight.
if you recycle things, of course, then you don't have all that weight in there.
I do find that I don't have as much to throw away
That's right.
all the bulky things
being tossed in
with the recycling.
I don't know what they could do more of exactly around here right now other than,
what are some of the things they don't recycle.
one thing I thought about the other day were batteries,
just everyday regular batteries.
Supposedly, leak contaminate
the landfills
yet, what am I going to do when I have a couple double A batteries to toss out.
they don't take,
Probably going to throw them in your trash .
that's what happens
there are places that take car batteries,
I wonder if they would take,
not that it would ,
kind of a pain to, drive over somewhere special little tiny batteries
I think the city one could possibly look into that or something.
that's true.
if they've got these bins for all the other little items,
I'm sure if will have batteries, quite often
that's true.
toss out.
when I was home those few days around Thanksgiving and truck came by, we all ran out to watch it because, we'd never really seen it
pick up our stuff
one thing I thought was interesting was that the driver had something on his belt that he, scanned across the little bar code
on our bin
is that right?
as soon as he took the stuff
he just pulled this thing kind of out of his pocket and just, scanned it,
I don't know that was reading it for
Registering our garbage .
they must be trying to keep track of , who is doing it, or what, I guess.
I don't know.
Wouldn't it be nice if you could get a credit back at the end of the year .
for those who are really cooperating.
that would encourage it.
except I know it would just not be cost effective.
They've already got all this money out on people to work them.
I'm sure they couldn't afford
the garbage,
there is just one garbage man that comes
on the truck instead of two.
that's interesting.
also, slightly off the subject, but big green garbage thing got stolen.
it did?
the City
brought us a new one
they did not charge us.
they said that between three and four hundred have been stolen.
my goodness.
Isn't that sad?
It is sad.
they paid for those things anyway.
they must be,
our taxes do.
really expensive.
of course, we were hoping going to have to pay for it,
what would somebody do with them.
Arlington, Texas
since I got somebody from Arlington, Virginia one day .
Is that right? .
I never thought about that,
there is an Arlington,
I had a call the other day from Birmingham, Michigan
I was thinking
I was thinking
the only Birmingham I could think of was Alabama.
It's funny how many names have been used, all over the country.
tell me what kind of books have you read?
to tell you the truth, I've been going to college for the last four years
text books.
I was going to say, not fun kind, right?
really tend to like biographies a lot, not necessarily always heavy ones
sometimes biogr ,
I just read one about Grace Kelley.
I love to read about real people.
To me, half the time it's more fascinating than some of these made up stories .
it is,
really and truly
it happened.
a true thing.
I read one about Bob Hope that I liked.
that was real good.
I'm like you,
if it's not a heavy biography,
I enjoy it.
I used to like to read about royalty a lot.
was younger I read about every king and queen that lived, I think, in Europe.
That was my thing for a while.
I was trying to think,
I read novel that used the names of like Princess Di and Prince Phillip coming over here to be entertained and all,
there was a murder.
it was some time ago.
Seems like it was THE SPY WENT DANCING, or something like that.
it sounds like fun.
It was a lot of fun because they used these real names,
Wonder if it was by one of those famous writers,
Margaret Truman Daniels writes a lot those.
in fact I believe it was
I believe.
Sounds like something she would write.
I think it was by her, now that you mention it, because someone had given it to me,
I thought, this will be great,
it was.
I've heard that interesting,
they always sell well.
when you use real people like that, I think
brings it to life.
royalty, especially,
I know, people laugh at us because we're so enthralled with their royalty.
that's like them being enthralled with our football and so forth,
I know,
our movie stars.
Our movie stars,
it's totally different concept to us.
had a chance to read a lot lately either.
I have read, mostly novels.
I went to visit my daughter in Florida
I took a novel with me, and read it at Thanksgiving time,
it was, one of those generation novels,
starts out when they're small and continues through generations
I always like those.
I like that.
Have you ever read anything by Susan Howatch?
I have.
Isn't she fabulous?
she is wonderful.
once you st ,
I don't like to get one of her books
just live to read.
skip everything just to get back to the book .
I stayed up one night, I think until two
in the morning finishing one of hers because it down.
She's just a,
I don't know,
come out with them.
I probably have missed the last few since I've been back in school.
it seems like she doesn't write as often as, like Danielle Steele and those silly things.
She writes the same thing.
turn them out overnight, I swear.
they're the same silly things,
if you've read one, I mean it's,
I've never read a whole one of hers, I don't think.
It, it's practically the same thing over and over,
think how rich she is.
wouldn't I,
I'm criticizing her,
wouldn't I like to have her money
they go from hardback to paperback
she has millions of them.
And then make movies out of some of them.
mini series and so forth,
it seems to me like Susan Howatch does not write as often.
I have not seen as many of hers.
hers are so involved,
they're so
such a higher intellectual level, because she quotes a lot,
I think she does a lot of research, too.
I do too,
she couldn't possibly turn them out like some of these popular
her books are just incredible.
I don't think they've ever made a movie, do you?
I don't think so,
I've often wondered why, haven't you?
I really just thought about it now
there's just,
Maybe it's because they take so much in.
I don't know.
Maybe they're just too involved for the average person to go and sit through them,
They're so big
they're such,
it would be like another GONE WITH THE WIND, I guess
another three hour movie .
maybe that turns people off,
look at GONE WITH THE WIND,
I know.
It's about one of my favorite movies.
have you, gotten into SCARLETT yet?
it had such a bad press,
I wasn't too (( )) .
that's exactly what I was going to say.
I was amazed,
in the beginning when it was route coming out
I heard mixed publicity
kind of good and bad,
when it came out, all I heard was just, how bad it was, that I didn't even want to get it.
Me, either.
Do you know anyone that's read it?
I haven't heard of anybody that's read it, either.
I think it was on the best seller list, though
for a while.
it wouldn't surprise me,
(( )) Are you there?
tell me your favorite team.
I've intrigued with the Rangers, more so with, their management than anything else.
don't follow baseball closely,
since I live here so close to Arlington, that's the team that I've been kind of following.
I think it's a little bit late in the season for them to assign us
where do you think they're headed,
we'll have to talk about the future
with the Rangers.
What are your thinkings on what they can do, what they'll be able to do?
I think that, with, so much controversy over Ruben Sierra not signing and asking us for so much money, it's, I think
I'm not real sure about th ,
do you know anything about Ruben Sierra's,
I heard tonight on the news that he is willing to come down.
on his,
he was willing to come down a little bit
if the Rangers will go up a little bit. *
the Rangers go up a little bit,
Yeah, *
a little bit million dollars or thirty five mil ,
that's a lot of money.
I think the entire baseball,
they're the ones that probably are paying the highest.
they are.
I think this is absolutely ridiculous.
they ought to,
I'm not real sure that they should pay him that much money.
I think they should, pay him what his salary is going to be, and let him,
he's got one more year before he turns into a free agent.
That's right.
who knows,
if he produces next year, they may have to end up paying him anyway,
if he doesn't, then his market value will go down
they can pick him up a lot less than,
(( )) .
than they would, if they paid him million dollars a year this year.
What I saw on the news today, that
was back just to visit.
I'm awful sorry he's not still.
what, he,
that was a great deal for him.
I'm sure it was.
it was a great deal for him
he just signed on,
I think it was like a five year deal with,
he's real happy there.
As far as the Rangers are concerned, they pitching.
Yes, sir.
what do you think of Howse, who is the coach for the pitchers?
The pitching coach?
I was just looking at the news tonight,
they showed a black guy that out,
His assistant.
His assistant.
I think that's great addition.
he seemed to know what he was doing
I really wish they could see fit to get rid of Howse.
you don't like Howse,
I really don't.
I'm not going to stand up, on my,
soapbox and say that,
not fond of Howse
I'm not fond of Grieves.
Tom Grieve?
not sure they're ready to get rid Tom Grieve yet,
Howse might be a different, situation,
I think you're probably right, need changes in, pitching coach, maybe
I'm just gullible enough that I think Bobby Valentine is, doing all right
I'm sure,
You do,
That's contrary to, popular belief, .
I know,
I know so,
I would like so much for these Rangers to get their act together give, Nolan Ryan the support he needs.
I know .
it's too bad that, it has to be a forty two year old guy lead Rangers,
I understand.
They need to have young guys that can take the lead
have so many mixed emotions about all this.
I think with their new stadium, they should go and let,
if you're from Iowa, you must be very artsy crafty.
Everyone I've ever known from the Midwest can do everything with their hands.
actually I'm from California
before then I was from Utah.
I didn't know anyone ever moved from California to
I grew up in California,
I went to school in Utah,
I got married there
we stayed there for a while,
now we're in .
I'm teasing, only because I'm from Indiana.
the Midwest.
I married a Texan,
they have a way of dragging you back home.
Anyway, we're supposed to be talking about crafts.
have any hobbies you do things with your hands
like knitting or,
I crochet,
I do water color,
I, sew
I do fabric painting.
you do a lot then.
Do you do needlepoint also and cross stitching?
I've done some cross stitching.
I haven't tried any needlepoint yet.
How about you?
actually pretty untalented .
I used to do a lot of knitting and crocheting,
don't know,
somehow I don't have the time anymore.
I have all these friends that wherever you go, sit down and the next thing they pull out of their,
bags their most recent, needle craft
in December everyone was doing stockings,
these gorgeous, detailed
minute, tiny stitch stockings.
those take a lot of time.
I only can do things that are pretty fast, because we just, got our baby last year,
I just don't have the patience to just, do something.
Is this your first baby?
Have you crocheted or knitted any baby clothes or baby blankets?
I crocheted an afghan for our bed.
That's the only thing,
I did a quilt,
I've done a quilt for our baby
I've done a quilt for our bed,
Did you embroidery the pattern and then quilt it yourself,
how did you make a quilt?
our baby's quilt, it was like the design,
I just went around the design
in the quilt.
I didn't piece it or anything like that
you actually hand quilted it yourself?
you need a loom,
were you a ,
was it small enough that you could just hold it?
I put it on
familiar with that?
okay .
mother back in Indiana,
we had a quilting frame in our basement,
quilt whole quilts by herself.
my God.
I was always amazed.
I have one of them.
to have the quilting frame and then to actually do that, it's a tremendous amount of work.
I haven't done tons of them .
I used to do more before we got our baby,
you think, children,
you can, use crafts to make wonderful things for children.
I think when babies,
I think afghans the crocheted little sweaters, wonderful.
they'll wear them .
Once they get old enough to talk then they no longer will wear them .
one thing that I like about this fabric painting thing is I can just make a T shirt and put a little ruffle around it and then, cut out a little pattern like flowers or something, and make, a design or, a little arrangement or something on the shirt and, fuse it on with Heat and Bond, or whatever and then paint around it.
I usually around the flower, whatever first,
I paint around it
you can't see the stitching as much.
that make sense to you?
I think it's very clever.
It's, funny that you said.
For Christmas, my daughter and I received matching sweat shirts
that a friend had made for us. A beautiful Christmas design,
they were matching
they were lovely,
when I washed them, although I took the precaution of turning them inside out
truly, everything fell off, or
most of it.
and bought just some cloth glue and glued it all back
I bought the paint and redid most of the edges
it was salvageable ,
I'm familiar with that,
I think you're very clever to, sew around the edges.
I think gluing alone, certainly if you wash it any amount of time, it
tends to kind of come loose at the edges.
someone told me that they had done it both ways,
sewed it on, with loose zigzag even helps .
how do you just figure (( )) ,
it depends upon our weather here.
today was a beautiful day
it was like, summer day.
It was seventy degrees
I dressed in, a light weight skirt,
it's a, ultra suede skirt and a blouse with a sweater, cardigan
over it.
Because I had some appointments at the office today, some interviews
I had to dress up anyway
I wore heels,
when it rains a lot, which is has been doing here a lot lately, very often, wear, pants and boots
how do you dress?
I'm going to talk about when I was working as a teacher and when I was (( working )) at now.
when I was a teacher, in Utah, I would generally wear, dresses and heels and things like that,
even when it, rained and snowed I just braved it
I wore heels anyway .
can see,
been a teacher so has my daughter
I know that we very often wore heels despite the fact that,
I know,
it was tiring.
it might kill you to go up and ,
That's right.
walk up to the door
you're going to look nice for the kids .
That's right
it always makes you feel like you're a bigger person than the kids, right?
I need all the height I can get .
I do too.
to be taller than some of the boys in the bigger grades,
older grades, I had to wear heels.
we too.
if dangerous then I would wear boots
I would change, into heels,
as soon as I got to my desk.
Of course, we wear, an unlined boots,
it has a heel on it.
They're the kind of boots that I wear to work
we wear them,
they're a leather boot that you wear
as I said they have a regular heel on them, high heel.
a lot with shirts and things.
it's kind of a,
I can't say constant down here in Texas that you wear these boots.
They're not a cowboy boot,
they're just a real pretty boot,
they keep your feet nice and toasty from the rain.
As I have a private high school that I run here when I'm interviewing a parent, of course I feel like I need to wear heels
and look like I'm a business person.
because the children will tease about where's your motorcycle,
if you wear boots too often,
Of course, you probably wear coats a lot.
the first two years I was in a room where they didn't heat it .
I did,
my goodness
then you had to.
the third year we, got heating
it was nice .
Then things improved, right?
of course, here we wear a light weight jacket a lot
that's nice.
that's very seldom
depends upon our winter.
We have a few days you might wear a
most of the time you can wear a sweater
we just don't wear coats much.
We often laugh about even when it turns chilly.
We're wearing something lightweight or no jacket because we're so used to running around like that.
It's really different.
Let's put it that way.
Are you not teaching anymore?
moved to Iowa
I'm working at a day care right now.
I see.
the way I dress is really different because I'm working in the nursery room with kids from six months to like twenty months.
you don't wear heels anymore I'll bet.
I wear, tennis shoes,
and jeans and things that, are sort of,
More practical.
it doesn't matter if I have to wash it a hundred times or something.
When you were teaching, did you ever have, a blue jean day or anything like that?
I never wore jeans because, I thought that was too casual .
I know that some of the schools they have, country western day or something like that one, or tacky day,
I always thought it hand when the teachers looked real tacky too.
It's all right for the students,
they look tacky a lot
I didn't think teachers should,
that's how I feel too.
Do you like, Iowa?
some good things about it
I've seen. A lot of things I'm not used to yet,
Where did you live before?
we lived in Utah before
I grew up in California.
that's quite a change from California to Utah,
what is your favorite kind of music?
I have to say my favorite type of music would probably be, classical music.
same here.
What type of music do you like in the classical area,
what like the most?
I guess I like a wide range. everything Baroque through at least some modern music.
my wife and I these days are especially into opera.
We've been sort of opera fans for a few years now.
do you go to the operas that they sing English or go to the ones that they sing other languages?
we, generally,
the places we've gone they sing in the original languages.
Like the Dallas opera here normally does, I guess.
haven't gotten into that too much because, don't know the story line and, I don't speak the language, then I have difficult time, comprehending what's going on.
one thing that's helped us a lot is that, can buy a lot of these operas now on
we have quite a collection of those,
you watch them at home,
they have subtitles,
figure out what's going on after a while,
you can enjoy it in the, theater.
the, Dallas opera now has, super titles all their performances I think.
What is that?
give English translation screen up above the stage.
I didn't know that.
That can help people like me.
In fact, they even do that for operas in English, because it is hard to understand the words sometimes.
I can understand that.
I'd say,
Vivaldi is probably my favorite, composer.
I really like Vivaldi.
he's, definitely top of that era.
I like Baroque music,
I like full body music, brass and winds, woodwinds, instruments,
Course I like, also string instruments,
I have two string instruments in my house. instrument players,
both my sons play string instruments.
One plays the cello
the other one plays the viola.
Oh .
I get to go to at least four or five concerts a year .
old are they?
One is thirteen and one is eleven.
they're doing this in school, or what?
Yes (( )) .
you've got half a string quartet there.
We're on our way.
I try to enjoy all of it.
since you seem to like, Italian music, have you ever, gotten into Gabrielli or anybody there in that era, the, period right before, actually before Vivaldi, I guess?
a little bit,
a lot of the, music I don't know about, as far as the titles,
I have to listen to it, and
and figure out,
what I'm listening to.
I do belong to a Musical Heritage Society.
Do you belong to that?
I don't,
I think I know what it is.
Isn't that a,
can't you get records through that or something, recordings?
You can get recordings.
they know have them on compact disc or
or, or cassettes or L P s,
a lot of original recordings themselves.
I think,
go to the different composers, or the different, I guess,
what do you call them the guys that orchestrate
right .
They go to conductors,
they actually have them perform the music,
they record it.
they're actually commissioned performances.
A lot of them are.
they will kno ,
find out when they're performing,
they will, record the music at that time.
it is, high quality grade music,
of course, now a jazz section,
they also have a, more contemporary and American
composer section.
I had things about the, Music Heritage Society,
if I get involved in one of those things, I end up spending all my money on
on music.
you can control it.
I bankrupted myself out of college as a freshman when I got into the Columbia Record Club many years ago.
my roommate signed me up.
He got a bonus record,
I got a lot of bills .
I see.
we have to watch that.
that's good.
do you play any instrument yourself?
play guitar early years played saxophone.
How do you feel about the Viet Nam war?
I guess it's pretty deep feelings,
I just, went back and rented, the movie, what is it, GOOD MORNING VIET NAM
I saw that as well.
Got some insight there, kind of help me put together the feelings.
I really appreciated whole, English class where fellow just wouldn't do it,
the guy's your eyes out,
what are you going to do?
what for him to finish me off .
was, good to remember that kind of Asian philosophy
you ever in Viet Nam
I was kind of an in between, finally drew a high draft number,
I was much too young,
I was born in sixty seven,
Oh .
brothers were, draft age,
neither of them wound up going over, which, I think they were very happy for.
just went in limbo.
I had a passport and was ready to go
out of the country or
join special forces, either one.
I just didn't know.
feel that it was worth what we did over there?
just a second.
Mark, what was that again?
in lives and money was worth it?
I totally agree with that.
effects do you think it's had on our country?
the (( )) says we should, go into the grief there
(( )) presidents have always avoided that
as a country.
it's pretty serious, really,
lot of things that aren't being addressed.
I think (( )) that's pretty typical of the involvement over nothing was really addressed,
it was never
announced that we were going to war,
it was such a gradual and subtle,
force that.
Gulf of Tonkin, resolution
was it a dolphin or a torpedo.
You remember that?
I vaguely remember we had a, spy ship torpedoed or something.
it was foggy
finally President Johnson said, they're weren't really sure whether it was a dolphin or a torpedo.
Oh .
Isn't that something?
do you think that for example this past war, in the Persian Gulf war
you see, it seemed to me Bush was to extraordinary lengths to, prepare the country for war.
Hey Mark
I've got to go,
We'll see you.
I guess our five minutes are up according to me.
Are they to you?
I wasn't really keeping count.
I guess,
good bye.
bye bye.
Mike, what are your opinions on, trial by jury?
I work for an insurance company
I see a lot of, verdicts that are pretty crazily decided. by juries particularly,
I know in England the judges set all of the awards.
juries will decide the guilt or innocence,
then they leave the awards up to more learned people.
I think maybe that avoids some of these totally ridiculous, millions and millions of dollars .
seems to make sense
leave it up to the more experienced person who knows how it fits into the, kind of the rate for different (( )) .
Each individual jury really doesn't have any perception of what, award should be for a certain type of case, within some kind of range.
When you get one way out like that
then really doesn't the person that they went after.
Who it really penalizes is their insurance company which then translates into higher rates for all of us.
If they get some of those mega awards against them.
they're not going to sit there and lose money.
If they are losing money, then they're going to raise rates.
ha ,
it all comes filtering down to us all
granted some people need to be compensated if they have really been wronged,
how do you feel about setting, for example, a car type accident where, some incident where someone loses a limb.
Do you think the jury should have a dollar figure for losing an arm, a dollar figure for losing different body parts?
I don't know.
some of the health insurance is written that way. that, if you buy an accident and death or dismemberment policy, it s , pre specified in the policy so much
I don't know that you can necessarily put value on somebody's limb,
arbitrarily that is always going to fit in all cases.
I think maybe you look at, the age of the person and their station in life how much longer they have of work years that they would have to put up, that.
maybe you don't award an eighty five year old guy the same thing that you would award a twenty one year old.
think it has to be some kind of common sense applied there.
there may be where the judiciary is a little more learned about that type of thing because they can be schooled in that kind of thing,
that can be part of continuing education, maybe for judges .
I don't know. .
to get into the economics of things,
if they wheel somebody into a courtroom and the jury's heart goes out to that person and they do one of these mega awards,
it really, ultimately is not penalizing the person that they're trying for get away.
That's true.
If it's a company, you know that they're insured. Unless the award is so staggering that it goes all beyond their layers of insurance which is another pet peeve of mine when they do award punitive damages,
I think those should be uninsurable.
I think those should have to be paid by the corporation itself that,
out of thei , r ,
that did the damage.
As opposed to the paying the bills,
(( )) .
honest mistakes where they've done something something happens.
One of their employees causes damage or something.
Wh ,
That's what they buy insurance for.
Who, who
do they get insured from other insurance companies
how does that work?
I was just talking about any company.
your talking about corpor ,
let's just say a lumber manufacturing company
somebody is on the premises
one of the employees actually is driving by with a forklift
he pushes the wrong button
he drops a load of lumber on somebody
it injures,
Insurance should pay for that.
in some instances you're going to put companies out of business by taking that stance, if they have to take it out of their own retained earnings.
I'm not talking about any loss.
I was talking about only losses that are judged for a punitive damage which is another category of, the juries are awarding damages these days based on the person's actual injuries and what they are due.
they are awarding a second amount as punishment to the company which is less.
it's amount their, designed to sting them a little for their,
For, th ,
For gross wanton negligence in a claim.
lately the courts have been deciding that those could be paid for by insurance too.
again, it never really penalizes,
That will,
the company doing the wrong.
They can go right on doing the same old thing they always used to.
they know some practice is wrong,
I'm not talking about your isolated occurrences,
I'm talking more about thing that they know,
maybe they're willfully manufacturing something that they know is hurting people out there
they continue to do it even after they become aware
of that.
Then I think they ought to have to pay something out of their own pocket.
Go ahead .
okay .
the, subject is child care and how to determine child care,
that's, an interesting one for me to talk about since I have no children,
I did run a child care facility for a while.
have some,
have some opinions on that, then.
I do have some thoughts on that,
it's, an interesting experience to be a surrogate a lot of people there,
it's also very interesting in terms of how people choose the child care facilities .
I guess if I were going to choose, my first consideration would be safety.
My second consideration would be, health.
I guess my third consideration would be,
environment, warm personal environment.
in Texas, we have to meet certain state standards in order to operate institutional level and at small home level
you meet the standards,
then after that a lot more.
I think it's important (( as )) the safety and health and that kind of stuff, is qualification of people who work there, and in hiring people who would work at facility was very difficult to find qualified people, in terms of, not
because somebody has a child or, likes children doesn't really mean that they're qualified to give the child the kind of supervision and training that
absolutely .
As a matter of fact, I believe that the safety health, issues, depend in a very direct way on the people who are working with the children.
that was the most difficult thing of all, to find right people, the qualified people.
it's the most difficult of all for a parent, judge,
because a person can be very nice and warm and loving,
if he's a space cadet and doesn't watch the children, and be aware of what the safety hazards are,
the other thing that's difficult in, a day care center is to find the right program of enrichment for the child, because you don't want to just warehouse the child,
I didn't want to run an institution where that was the case, where all we were doing were warehousing because the first four, five years or so important
you have to have the right kind of enrichment
includes, an atmosphere in which the child is safe he's watched and his physical needs are cared for,
also his, developmental needs are cared for, too.
Maybe the right thing to do is to, when a couple has a child, then four or five years off and devote to parenting.
That would be lovely.
Get rid of all these child care centers, at least for young kids below the age of six.
of course, to make up for that, the, parents would have to work in their later years longer,
in other words, they probably up not working at all in the twenties.
that's an interesting thought because,
they have to work from age thirty forty to age seventy or eighty or ninety.
That would be okay .
help on the other end, too, terms of not warehousing people and letting people be productive for as long as they can be.
world is changing from, industrial, base to, information base
what that means is you don't have to be physically powerful to work.
That's exactly right.
All you have to do is have a sharp mind,
I believe that, mental acuity is easy to if you just simply continue to exercise your mind.
I think a person could work, into the seventies, eighties, even nineties for that matter,
if they didn't have to do a lot of physical, labor, they could
Your turn.
I don't think they should abolish it .
if they put it into force more often, they wouldn't have as many problems as they've got.
not for petty theft?
For major things like premeditated murder. Mass murders. that type of thing.
I don't think it should just be used loosely.
it should be used as a deterrent do you think?
should it be used,
to prevent further, crime?
To prevent these people from ever getting out on the street.
By, some technicality.
they go down the line ten years
on some little technicality they get out and on the streets again doing the same they did before.
that's about the only thing.
Like stuff like that or manslaughter,
I don't think they should do that.
there's this old, Jewish, saying about an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.
I guess,
was someone in my family, I'd probably feel that way.
I've never had anybody in my immediate family, murdered
I really wouldn't know.
I feel if I did, I probably would feel that way.
one of the things I was thinking about is, from society's point of view, if you put a value on each person, what you want to do is to maximize the end game value.
if you have someone destroys that value
then you want to take steps to, minimize the loss.
Of course, you have to also put value on the criminal.
if you terminate him, that's a loss of value.
that's true .
if you weight everyone equally, then you have to say, the likelihood of not terminating him,
if you don't terminate him, the likelihood is expected value of loss of life is greater than one person.
In other words, murder more than one other person
Besides him.
in order to justify taking his life.
Another way you could do it is weight this value by, the value to society of the people. which is pretty delicate thing to do.
one way of doing it is, by income.
if this guy doesn't make a great deal of money,
which is often times the case, then
His life isn't worth very much then .
then he's obviously not worth very much
the likelihood that, maybe murders by him integrated over the income of the people, that he murders is maybe, a loss of, who knows, eight hundred thousand dollars.
if he only, income over the expected remainder of his life of is, small, less than eight hundred thousand dollars, then you terminate him .
Of course, one of the things that happens if you use that algorithm, is you find that terminate older people than younger people since the integration of their income over the rest of their lives is going to be less.
Which means,
I suppose you could say, that has something to do with potential for rehabilitation.
the key right there. Potential.
rehabilitative not.
that's all fine and well good philosophical.
if you're involved yourself, personally
I know I have a friend whose, son was murdered, on the night before his sixteenth birthday.
let me tell you, knew them personally, not intimately, but quite well
you're talking about real trauma. trauma that extends beyond the counting of bodies.
I can imagine.
The father,
of course, a parent losing a teenage child is about as bad as it could possibly get, I think, in terms of psychological impact.
Was he murdered?
Did they find who killed him?
They found him
he is on trial for capital murder.
it hasn't been a long time ago.
Just recently.
of course, now, you go through two or three hundred years of appeals process
That appeals process, it's what, really, just drags out and out and out.
My brother in law here in Texas, husband, his sister was murdered down here by a guy in Houston
Go ahead.
I think public service is a worthy thing
as a matter of fact there are a lot of programs, such as Peace Corps that promote that.
huh .
Probably the most popular one but, one that is not typically recognized as such is the Boy Scouts.
I know that because my son is scout now and, is thinking about his Eagle
in order to get Eagle, you have to have merit badges in, citizenship in the community
(( Right )) .
citizenship in the nation, citizenship in the world
you have to do a public service project.
in which leadership is the key element.
think the question is posed somewhat strangely because, it's talking about a requirement for
(( huh )) .
public service
of course, Corps, the Boy Scouts voluntary activity.
think that might be to, something, kind of, alternative to the draft,
Either you have, military service or some sort of alternative, nonmilitary service for a few years.
of course, military service falls under the category, of a public service.
one of the things that would fulfill nominal, qualifications set forth in the charge is military service or draft.
(( )) . Right,
I agree with you, that probably is not what was comprehended.
There are other
i ,
things such as civil service
which many people, are lifelong employees of
I suspect that was not what they had in mind either.
of a voluntary kind of thing
years there has been an idea batted around of having some sort of alternative, public service for, young people to go into, after high school.
kind of in lieu of the draft people conscientious objectors or don't otherwise want to be in the military,
you can go into the military
you can do this other thing for one or two years to kind of serve the community learn about things.
interesting because not a particular fan of the military
I have seen go in that don't have really a clue as to what they want to do with their lives and aren't terribly disciplined, even just personal discipline about what they want to do
they come out
now they have at least some marginally marketable skills and more discipline.
some cases they have a greater self esteem because that, if I do something or my own will to the will of the sargent or whatever, at least for a short period of time, I can accomplish a lot
a good lesson for a lot of young men to learn. That they don't need to be, cowboys.
They don't need to be out there constantly flaunting their ego to get things accomplished.
young men, that's good.
For me, it would have been lousy because
did have personal discipline.
I went
Why is that?
to college for four years and got out,
for some people that's good.
don't particular like the fact that it's the military,
(( )) the whole point of the military is to kill people essentially. an instrument of U S policy.
It's to defend the nation against external evils.
that's one view .
(( another debate.
it depends on figure a defense oriented military or
an oriented military.
it seems pretty oriented,
look at the last action which was in the Persian Gulf and wasn't anywhere near the United States
definitely a projection of U S power on the other side of the globe,
any rate, this is getting off the topic
i ,
point was that were an alternative that could instill the same sort of personal discipline and sense of purpose and, sense of community that the Boy Scouts,
I've been involved in electronics a long time. in computers
I have really resisted the impulse to get one for the home.
up until, I guess, maybe about a year and a half ago,
I got one for my son. Macintosh
L C.
It's a real easy to use color, computer
I got a very nice printer that goes along with it
he uses it for his school work.
currently in school
had an I B M clone, I guess, for a couple of years now, which I've been trying, continually upgrading I guess.
that I pretty much become addicted to it
I can't really,
I've found that most of homework assignments (( )) really require some sort of computer, simulation or analysis,
essential for me.
Schools have them,
lot of times so difficult to get on them at school.
to have one at home.
Where you going to school?
At Georgia Tech.
I see.
In engineering?
Yes, actually.
that explains all the, computer assignments.
do you use your P C for things other than explicit computer work?
I have some games, of course, which I play on there
I have a program which allows me to access a, weather data bank
I can, check up on the weather around the country or whatever (( which is )) a hobby.
it provides other means other than just strict, computations and so on,
have a computer for yourself at home?
I just have one for my son
I really sort of have the feeling that word processing is a big market for
home computing.
Tha ,
I'm a technologist,
I, in the past, have done a great deal system development just through, software development programming.
now I find myself using the computer,
even the computer at work is primarily a, word processing system
and a communication system.
Do you use Email and like that?
Emil down a third all my time.
I have modem (( )) night computer
I can log into at Georgia Tech and access my account through there, can be useful.
and word processing is
(( while )) I tend to,
obviously, I do report writing my computer, whether it's term papers or even some smaller homework assignments.
my mainstay I guess.
I can't even remember,
I don't think I've ever used a typewriter my life to do a report. Because my family, when I was growing up, we got a basic computer. T R S Eighty when they first came out.
I even used that to do my first reports when I was in junior high,
I'm a old timer.
I did my Master's thesis on, a typewriter.
I rented an I B M Selectric.
it was a pretty big deal.
It must have been tough.
It's a little bit strange for me.
did my Master's thesis, last year
I did that on a computer
it seems like,
I just can't imagine how people did it before.
It must have been just work .
it was just a completely different world then.
used your son's Macintosh then?
do you like that kind of computer?
I like it,
I like it from a distance really.
see the packages on it, that are available
it's nice.
I really don't use it myself.
come home from work, like to stay far away from
computers and electronic things .
I let my son do it
of course, an intellectual evolution taking place where,
it's sort of a joke
it's really true,
the old timers, even the people who are technologists don't know how to operate these electronic things like V C R s and whatnot
the kids, they just take to it like candy.
if, if the interface is there so that it's fun to use the challenge ,
Regarding, taxes. I,
taxes are really a necessary evil in a civilized society.
really, people get upset at taxes because more efficient to do things yourself.
a result, a trade off, for the common good, the benefit of others,
How much of your resource should you dedicate to, making things work for others?
Have you, ever thought, just how much of that money go to other people that really don't deserve it?
yeah .
I know a lot, , I feel you said, that, there's just so much that you can do yourself. That you take care of your own self that you don't need the money for
they're giving it to other people that don't really need it
yet they accept it.
the thing of it is,
if I wanted to just, permanently become a book reader, I guess I could just, go on public assistance,
Like so many people do.
look for, look for people to, take care of me.
probably a good woman,
Right .
just con somebody to take care of me.
you don't have to be on the tax roll.
taxes very difficult kind of thing
everybody really hates it.
It was very timely.
I always over pay deductions
I wind up
getting money back withholding.
always a smile.
of course, paid it in
I should calculate it better.
Right .
(( )) .
are you in business for yourself?
I work for the F B I.
(( )) .
a federal employee.
Guess I don't sound like it
I th ,
I think that people that work for the government are just as against taxes everybody else,
(( I belong )) .
Unless you work for Internal Revenue .
got all four feet in the trough, being a federal employee.
I can understand who gets benefits.
time there is bond issue
I vote no on every one of them.
revolt country.
there's too many,
four feet in the trough, Plus our snout, right up to our ears.
it's not exactly that kind of a place you want to, get into a tax revolt situation.
local taxes here,
this particular area, I pay about, thirty five hundred taxes on my four bedroom house,
which is a lot of money.
people get older and older, they think about retirement and that sort of thing
building old peoples homes, at tax expense.
I think, the old people ought to just bail out of here and go where it's cheaper.
At thirty three hundred dollars or thirty five hundred dollars I'm paying in taxes,
could go down to Bulverde and probably house for that,
that's right.
instead, the taxes here
Course I don't know whether I want to go to Bulverde or not,
or Seguin or someplace like that.
there's certainly lots of inexpensive places where the services are poorer.
I think really the only place you can really reduce the amount of taxes you pay is to move to an area where the services are poorer.
If you're not going to use them, then you want to be environment.
That's a strategy I think the people take. how to be able lessen their cost of living.
five or six (( )) years before I'm eligible to retire
I'm saying I really can't stay here, as a retiree.
After you retire,
It's too expensive.
I'm going to have go out in, East Fork someplace.
do my thing,
My parents are in the same situation,
home is paid for
still their taxes are so high, that, my father doesn't feel like he can retire because they couldn't pay their taxes.
they have no children in school or, anything now.
They don't use any of those services that a lot of the taxes go towards.
redecorated in nineteen seventy five,
they're not doing it
it's certainly,
you must be a T I employee.
You must be what?
You must be a T I employee?
I'm not .
You're not a T I,
who do you work for?
don't work.
I'm a student.
I go to school.
I'm in nursing school .
generally I get, most of my news, in the, weekly magazines like TIME, NEWSWEEK U S NEWS AND WORLD REPORT. occasional smatterings THE WALL STREET JOURNAL and, of course, the local paper.
only complaint is I really don't enough time look at the articles every day go through a paper, exhaust the details.
that's why I concentrate on weekly magazines.
Do you think that the weekly magazines provide you with as much detail information as you'd like?
I, I don't think I have the time to really become a student in every article.
I like the weekly magazines, because gives me, the high points of what's going on.
many times, the local news kind of suffers,
here I am, cheek by jowl with our nation's capital
that's right.
You're very close actually.
almost a, bedroom community for
the capital.
the capital gang always talk about the people inside the beltway, I'm saying to myself, hey guys, I'm inside the beltway .
turns out that the C N N great.
And things like hurricanes and fast breaking events
generally, they're more sound bitish, kind of thing
I don't really,
I don't really feel as though I've a gotten sufficient, dose of news that way.
A lot of my information comes from several sources.
Probably pretty high up on the list is National Public Radio.
which I like.
think it's fairly objective
I always like the letters that they read which tend to accuse them of being too liberal and too conservative.
while there's an inherent, filtering process going on just by the letters they choose to read, I always figure it's a good thing when any given group is being accused by each side of, favoring the other side.
potential indication of balance.
generally, I really do believe they are pretty balanced.
I also read TIME magazine
we get one of the daily newspapers around here where we go through various sections of the articles and the front section
the MERCURY and the CHRONICLE are the only things that are really, can
stand up there.
you st ,
did you use to live around here?
Redwood City.
I use to work at Anteks.
I know exactly where that is.
Anteks, Amdahl and places like that.
get the MERCURY which I generally think is actually a pretty good newspaper .
A ,
the newspaper I really been impressed with it when I've read it at times, the LOS ANGELES TIMES.
Which I've found to be very good quality , newspaper
I like a lot of the articles there.
the other thing that you referred to that always sounds really interesting to me called C SPAN.
I enjoy,
both C SPANS here.
really, on the public T V, MACNEIL LEHRER
hour's program that I always,
I watch any news program, it will be MACNEIL LEHRER.
occasionally C SPAN.
I saw the, the tapes run of Marion Berry's drug bust
the whole thing run on that
I never say that. *
That would have been interesting.
they have PARLIAMENT'S QUESTION AND ANSWER PERIOD.
think that's always fascinating.
we had something.
when it first, when it first tuned in on that I,
it's one that's,
I think it was, somebody was just ripping the hell out of
everybody was, making noise in the background.
it's usually the Prime Minister,
Here's this dude in a wig
(( Major )) .
I said to myself, it's another Monty Python that I didn't know about .
up jumps Margaret Thatcher off her green bench
I said it's Parliament .
Which could be another (( )) of Monty Python.
thought to myself, I can't wait.
I'm going over Britain
I'm going to, approach my,
this is how I discovered, and answer period,
P ,
have seen that
from the level of wit which is much higher than, generally, in American politics, which I really enjoy. I really like the fact that they have a chance to ask hard, real questions I think.
it's unlike the fairly controlled, press conferences that Presidents of the United States have here where always seem,
my favorite show is MASTERPIECE THEATRE
it has been for a long time
I feel almost ashamed to say that to anybody now because I have never met anybody who likes it.
Do you by any chance?
You do!
very much.
wouldn't you know .
As a matter of fact, I prefer public television.
I the English comedies,
and the English mysteries.
I watch mysteries too.
Is that what you're referring to?
That is good.
I like,
do you read?
that's the reason why I like both of those programs is because they're kind of based on books.
the plots are more, challenging, than the sitcoms of regular T V.
unfortunately for us at least here in the United States, have to that of course is public television.
not a great television watcher in any respect
the watching,
what I do watch is, usually news and whatever is on public television.
Any kind of,
I also am very fond of great performances,
in that regard.
Me too.
Did you stay up late and catch this RED DWARF?
No ,
that was a scream.
as a matter of fact, Turner Broadcasting,
has been broadcasting all of the James Bond movies,
every night this week,
I have concentrated on watching James Bond movies,
this week .
I used to like him too,
he was my hero.
In fact, I like Sean Connery to this day.
they're showing LIVE AND LET DIE at this moment,
it is the first appearance of Roger Moore as double oh seven.
he can never cut it .
that's true.
I was just thinking that today, he did,
in some of the later movies he looks very effeminate,
in his early movies.
he does.
Whereas, Sean Connery has maintained the, ruddy look,
I liked his accent too.
he can even be in movies that are not, sexually oriented,
he still comes off great.
voted the sexiest actor in movies,
He is.
or something.
he had my vote double .
the man is sixty two years old.
I don't care .
otherwise we,
with P B S and so forth.
I particularly enjoy, I don't know whether you've had a chance to watch it on P B S but the series, YES MINISTER?
what's that about?
That was about Interior Minister,
it was a comedy,
the Interior Minister England,
with the permanent secretary,
and bureaucracy and all that.
seen it several times.
It's a scream,
I have to go to bed,
I have to get up work the next morning.
I wish they'd put those,
that's why I say, did you stay up late to watch this RED DWARF.
It came on after DOCTOR WHO,
on Saturday nights, here at least.
it should,
of course I li
really it was,
I don't think they should show it during prime time,
it was funny.
I know.
I'm not much of a television watcher.
read as I said,
quite a bit.
I read about two or three novels a week,
in addition to all the technical stuff.
do you do?
What kind of work do you do?
I'm a Payroll Clerk.
Just an accounting clerk.
At T I?
I have a friend who works for T I
I work for a tire service,
I see.
here in,
I'm from Dallas.
the last two people who have called, both worked for T I
I just wondered.
it could be T I ers, I think, probably are participating more than anybody else,
I needed the money.
This is five bucks here.
I think that's something we all ca ,
Do you work for T I?
I work for G T E.
In Maryland,
How did you hear,
we're not even supposed to be talking about this though, are we?
I guess not.
How did I hear about it?
I work,
they are gathering a data base for voice processing.
that's my field of work also.
know the people at T I who are doing this
I heard about it,
I called them and asked if I could participate.
send in the forms et cetera and so forth.
We could go back to television shows.
speaking of public TV, have you caught any of this series on the Bible?
I have.
I've heard the idea that the Bible's not true.
you could interpret it that way.
think what they are trying to say, is that there is a great deal of historical truth,
the interpretation that actually got into the writing of the Bible itself is probably after the what, it the King James Version when the committee that so much was lost in the translation, particularly since most of the translations were in Greek.
for example. In Greek there are seven different words for love.
you can have,
there's one word for love of your brother, one word for love of your wife, one word for, love of your father, and that sort of thing.
as to those types of interpretations, really made a difference in how one might interpret the Bible now, and what it's at.
you can look at it as though they are saying it's not true,
there's too much historical fact involved just from histories that developed around that time, that are available.
To deny that, at least the majority of it is true.
it depends on how you look at it.
You can look at it,
if you want to say that it's proven that it isn't true, then you can very much look at it that way.
I guess if you're looking for that, you're,
you can interpret the T V show, in the same way that you can interpret the Bible.
far as that goes, at least agree on what we enjoy.
that's right.
I don't know if a time limit on this,
Surely we've made it.
I think so too.
Let's just,
it's been very pleasant talking to you,
It was very nice talking to you.
have a good evening.
You too.
Good night!
Bye bye.
Robert are the most, likely causes of air pollution?
I don't,
guess it's the stuff that comes out of automobile exhaust,
they say in the paper nitrous oxides and ozone and all that.
I believe them
I'm not a chemist.
think that those are bigger contributors than things like rain and some of the pollutants that come from, industrial areas, factories and so on?
I don't really know,
I grew up in Los Angeles and have felt like I was victimized by air pollution.
I was going to say,
you, you understand smog .
I understand it very well
in fact I was a private pilot there,
I can remember clearly in my mind, flying and coming up above the smog layer at about three thousand feet and looking back down really being unbelieving at,
what looked like a,
it just looked liked peanut butter.
My word.
Thick and brown and so on.
that was, a few years ago?
This was quite a few years ago.
This was in the nineteen sixties.
wonder if it's any better now.
People say that it is somewhat better.
Because has such strict rules,
about emissions and so on.
don't know if you heard about the, recent legislation in, Colorado, against a power company, that's actually on Indian land, I believe,
it has been ruled against, regarding air pollution because they think that it's causing terrible smog over the Grand Canyon.
And, particularly in the winter months.
it was, a landmark case because it's unusual to,
I can,
were talking about shutting it down, if it didn't comply and so on.
did it burn coal?
I don't know that,
the information is one of those wire services kind of
it's hard,
I never did see the full story,
I don't know.
they said it really caused so much smog over, the Grand Canyon in the winter months that they couldn't do the, piloting, the helicopter trips and that sort of thing.
Which would be horrible,
because nothing,
that's such a spectacle.
It would be a shame to ruin it.
what do you think individuals could do, or society could do to alleviate this problem.
know whether we could do a whole lot as individuals. maybe just take good care of our cars,
and make sure we keep our pollution devices clean and all that sort of thing.
apart from that, don't know what we can do as individuals.
What do you think we can do?
you think, it's to society.
I guess I kind of agree there.
on an individual basis there isn't a lot we can do about a lot of things
if we are concerned about it then we certainly can, force, government, that we elect to deal more seriously with it.
I do think that we have a responsibility there.
I must admit I'm not always real politically active
I do think that, Congress has backed down much too much on some of the air pollution standards.
it's brought the,
they, really listen to
lobbyist the car manufacturing companies really pushed,
(( they )) ,
all those are really too hard,
quite make that go
they don't
we still live with air pollution.
I suspect that that's one thing as individuals, we can do, make our voices known, perhaps to our legislators.
as a society, I think we can do more
that's probably how we ought to do it.
I guess to the point where I'm cynical enough that I really don't believe anything will happen there's something economically justifiable about it.
in the case of air pollution, it simply might turn out at some point down the road, to be so costly to have to live with air pollution in terms of health problems,
and everything else that we'll spend the money that's necessary get rid of the source of it.
I suspect that there's going to have to be a lot of pressure, come to bear on the companies that deal with it
probably the only way that can happen is for, governments to realize that they have to pay if companies don't.
I don't know how long will take.
People also have to realize they can't have their cake and eat it.
if you don't want to burn coal for power,
how about energy.
we don't want that either.
How about investing in the sun.
nobody wants to pay twenty five cents a kilowatt hour, I don't think.
I probably wouldn't mind if it really came down to it.
it's just the same thing with
now is a wonderful time to smack a fifty cent a gallon tax on gasoline,
so that we don't, run into the kind of problems we recently had
yet the government is not going to do that because people are too dependent
to pay for it.
instead, we spend billions of dollars going to war.
wha ,
however, it might have had other causes.
Certainly oil was a big factor.
I think that's probably going to happen such things as air pollution,
in our automobiles maybe, we'll have a little bit of help.
do you have any air pollution in your area?
There's not really a lot here in Raleigh.
once in a while we'll get some,
I think it kind of washes down your area Linda .
Your talking about states,
have more factories and so on.
that's what they say
it's not very usual
certainly we don't have the eye stinging variety that you get in the big cities.
we really don't have that either.
the comfort level, particularly in the summer. when it gets hot,
and you have, kind of a pressure from the pockets of air, usually they say caused by exhaust.
It seems to me that I'm more uncomfortable
my eyes sting more and so on and so on.
I suspect that an ever growing problem.
I suspect that we've probably covered everything that we need to here.
I think,
It was nice talking to you.
we've given them about seven minutes according to my watch
I enjoyed the conversation.
So did I.
Bye, bye.
my favorite, probably, all time T V show is STAR TREK.
I would (( )) it like that,
like the adventure of it.
huh .
And the idea we would survive long enough to get to that point and be able to do these fantastic things in space.
I the,
they have a new one now.
The STAR TREK THE NEXT GENERATION.
Right .
Which it's an all new cast, but kind of the same idea, going out to new places doing new things and finding out about different people,
always liked that show probably the very best.
I think I've actually seen a number of STAR TREKS, one way or another over the years. although I never watched it regularly.
I'm certainly acquainted with the character
the characters.
I've seen some of the STAR TREK movies.
the movies are good too.
guess of the shows I like are, are kind of along the same line because they're all adventure .
started thinking about this, those are some of my favorite shows, MCGYVER, because only one person there, instead of a cast
of people,
he's always going out and inventing new things out of scrap, and grabbing what he can and, pieces of baling wire a few tires and all of a sudden he's got a hang glider
I don't think even heard of that show.
You haven't?
It's called MCGYVER?
He's like a semigovernment type agent. Who the Phoenix Foundation, supposedly.
big thing is that he can take and pieces of string and baling wire and turn them into fantastic different things.
He took a car battery and some wire and two washers one time and made a welder.
does all kinds of strange things like that.
Boeing ought to hire him and give him a junkyard,
and see if he could build a Seven Forty Seven out of it.
See what we can come up with.
Do you like the, news shows, TWENTY TWENTY, SIXTY MINUTES, those kind of things?
I used to watch SIXTY MINUTES as a matter of fact,
I used to like the show very much.
unfortunately I find getting rid of your T V set, you do throw out of the baby,
Some of the
with the bath water.
little things,
I just decided I had to do that. I think, in part because it was easy for me to become addicted to it,
I could just sit mindlessly in front of a T V set for hours.
I just realized, I was sort of like an alcoholic,
if I didn't get the booze out of the house, I was going to drink.
I guess I haven't ever had any trouble with that.
I usually make time in my day or my week, to watch those.
for the most part, and keep it on just a minimum amount of time, really when they're up.
I guess that falls (( )) ,
one of my other favorite shows is SESAME STREET because of the kids.
I like that real well.
when my kids were little, I did have a T V set
I did watch a lot of SESAME STREET and a lot of ELECTRIC COMPANY, as well.
I don't think they have that on anymore.
that would be a shame.
I haven't seen the ELECTRIC COMPANY in a long time.
remember it when I was younger catching it on P B S,
I don't think they show,
it must be in,
maybe it's in,
if it was in repeats,
they're not making new ones.
I haven't seen it in a long time.
SESAME STREET is still really good.
How about MISTER ROGERS,
is he still around?
They still show MISTER ROGERS.
I don't think he's making new ones,
they repeat all the old ones.
I see.
I see.
that's still a real good show too.
that one tends to come on earlier in the day than I want to turn the T V on .
SESAME STREET comes on from nine to ten, which is a good time
everybody is up and had breakfast and dressed and ready to go,
the timing it is good, besides (( the amo , )) what's on.
I figure your children are preschool?
I have two little ones.
they like that.
I seem to remember those shows being on in the afternoon.
They come on both.
They come on from nine to ten and then from, five to six.
They just repeat
over again. Which is also,
another thing that's good about it,
when it comes on right in the dinner hour. I I can let them sit in front of the T V and watch,
they're watching something worthwhile, while I can make dinner and do things I need to do
without them under foot.
kids the T V set really is a,
I used it as a pacifier.
I'm not sure it was that great for my children,
they turned out okay,
it didn't hurt them any.
Some shows are good for,
I think
STAR TREK, I,
for the imagination of it all.
The idea, think that's one of the things I like about STAR TREK.
even in for kids watching some of it can be a little violent sometimes and stuff.
I don't let my little ones watch it,
the imagination of, look what we can do, in the future, possible.
That kind of thing.
I think we've covered most of my favorite T V shows.
I'm trying to think if I ever even had a favorite one at one time,
Let's see, how about, MAN FROM UNCLE?
I do seem to reme ,
is that the one where always got tape recording that self destructed?
That's MISSION IMPOSSIBLE.
that's right,
MISSION IMPOSSIBLE.
I used to watch that.
In fact, I can still remember a couple of those.
They were,
I thought those were very good.
they always have,
seen some of them on repeats.
they always had a good plot.
It kind of kept you guessing what was going to happen next .
How they're going get out of their latest scrape.
I do remember that.
I remember as a kid my parents watching the ED SULLIVAN Show.
That was really the big deal in our household, was the ED SULLIVAN SHOW.
every Saturday night?
it was a Saturday night,
I went to see the movie THE DOORS a couple of days ago,
they had this scene, THE DOORS appearance on the ED SULLIVAN SHOW.
They even had somebody portraying Ed Sullivan,
it was very, very funny.
I think it was the funniest part movie.
I don't know,
was there any,
I remember the MILTON BERLE SHOW even,
I was,
Ye ,
I'm not old enough to recall that one .
I was,
I guess, I have to admit that I am .
My T V viewing started sort of mid sixties,
I see.
I'm not even sure if we had one when I was really little.
That may be why, bu ,
they probably didn't have a T V until I got to be, grade school or so.
the shows that I like now, they wouldn't let me watch.
I had to catch them all on repeats.
Like STAR TREK, they thought that was much too violent for small children.
I ended up watching a lot of these things on, repeats in the afternoons or something.
I think it's interesting that parents think that their small children learn violence from TV,
people were just as violent before T V was invented, maybe even more so.
I guess a different topic
isn't it? .
Probably so .
I think covered it for me,
I think I'll say good bye
we'll talk another time perhaps .
it was nice talking to you.
where you're calling from.
I'm calling from Garland, Texas.
Garland, Texas.
All right.
I'm in Nor ,
Where are you from?
I'm in Raleigh, North Carolina.
my goodness.
I didn't know they did it long distance.
I hope they're trying to do it all over the country, because they need to collect all kinds of different
different dialects.
it was nice talking to you .
Same here.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
the last movie that I saw,
don't go to that many
I'll just have to talk about the ones that I went to see,
it was AWAKENINGS with, Robin Williams and, Peter DeNiro.
Have you seen it.
unfortunately I haven't,
I heard it's really good,
It is.
I just have to take my hat off to Peter DeNiro.
He is one of the best actors I've ever seen.
there's a point where,
show is about these, catatonic type people that,
this doctor discovers a drug that brings them back to living, more or less,
it wears off.
the way it wears off is he goes through all these spastic,
it starts off with like a tic,
it gets to where he can't, control his movements at all.
it was just so realistic.
The way, you have to just keep reminding yourself that he's an actor.
What does,
Williams, does he have a funny part in it?
it was
how does he do serious.
He's good,
boy, he is.
I've only seen him in funny stuff
I know,
me too.
what was that show,
I want to say Garfield
that wasn't it.
THE WORLD ACCORDING TO GARP.
He wasn't always funny in that show, was he.
I didn't movie,
I read the book
I did too.
That's why I was thinking it couldn't be just a totally funny part .
in fact, it got some pretty serious deep parts in it
what have you seen?
I think the last movie that we went out to see was DANCES WITH WOLVES.
I saw it.
we've both seen one .
Did you cry through it?
the whole way .
It was telling a friend, said, I only cried twice,
each was about half an hour long,
Where did you cry.
let's see,
thought that the Indians were going to get killed, I cried.
I cried the first time when wagon man got killed, when they attacked him.
I think from there on, all the way through the movie.
Let's see what else did it. what other parts.
I can't remember any of the other parts right off now.
I cried when the horse got killed and when the wolf got killed .
We ,
I don't remember when the horse got killed.
th ,
when he was riding back to the settlement and they shot his horse out from under him.
looked out there and saw those buzzards, .
that horse has been such a pal to him,
when he was alone.
You can tell I'm an animal lover,
you can hear my dog .
Unfortunately we don't have any animals,
It was a beautiful story,
it really was.
there was a lot of pretty scenery, too, in that movie.
What did you think about the buffalo scenes.
I thought it was awful,
That was,
and so graphic,
I hadn't even imagined it,
I think we all heard the story of the slaughter of the buffalo.
I had a friend who had fixed some, about a week before went to see the movie.
Of course they raise them now, to eat.
it's not,
were both feeling so guilty about enjoying this chili after seeing that.
at least you know that it wasn't same situation that the buffalo died in.
it wasn't .
I thought the scenes when the buffalos running, though, were beautiful,
that was great.
there were so many of them.
I didn't know that, that many buffaloes alive, much less in one place.
that was pretty.
to think about how it just changed the whole landscape, you could follow beaten down path,
it sounded like thunder and earthquakes and that sort of thing.
I wonder how they kept up with them, though,
it seemed like the buffaloes were moving so fast.
I know.
I guess they graze, though,
that wouldn't (( be a )) problem.
have you seen any of the behind the scenes, that movie.
It was,
they tried to keep it, as very close to real.
Kevin Costner did all of his own scenes
they had to teach a wolf how howl.
That's the, part they had trouble finding was wolves .
I guess they're just not domesticated,
they just don't howl that much anymore.
I could bring them in with my dogs and set a siren off
that's all they'd have to do .
That'll teach them in a couple minutes,
that's funny.
I think we've made it.
is that five minutes,
is that,
I don't know,
is it five or three.
I'm not sure.
I'm not either.
I think we've done okay, though.
me too.
thank you for calling.
thank you.
I hope you enjoy some more good movies late ,
you too.
Bye, bye.
Bye, bye.
I was trying to get my children quiet for a minute.
credit cards, that's an easy topic,
Ye ,
isn't it .
it is .
It's one we all hold dear and near, I'm sure.
I guess I've had some good experience and some bad experience with them.
most of mine's been pretty good, although like a lot of other people, now,
I'm trying pay off my credit cards
I've done pretty good at it.
huh .
I do fairly good until I go in the store and I see something I want .
not need, want.
there is a big difference .
There's a big difference there.
most of mine that I use is strictly gasoline.
do that,
I do that,
of them I've been trying pay off
and, get back on a cash basis, except for gas.
It's too easy run into the gas station.
it sure is
(( )) .
especially when you work out of town and everything, that way .
At least that's for me.
talked to some who's really had some bad experience
I haven't yet, not bad.
shocked at the end of the month,
to see what damage I have did,
I try to keep it pretty reasonable.
I've been pretty lucky in that respect.
been trying not charge except for emergencies.
I haven't really had any bad problems with credit cards.
they have, wonderful features,
they're there when you need them.
like in emergencies, or whatever.
they have bad drawbacks, too.
awfully easy.
high interest,
it's like paying twice.
That's true,
that's true,
(( )) .
I try to,
I did switch to one, sponsored by the credit union, though. That seems to be a pretty low interest.
compared to some of the other ones.
you don't have an annual fee there,
that helps.
we used to have, several,
right now, we're just more or less at American Express,
that way we can go ahead and pay it off when it comes in.
that's one way to do it, because forces you to pay for it
instead of saying, I'll just
Pay fifteen,
pay on it this month
I know,
when you pay fifteen dollars a month it sure takes a long time.
Takes a long time,
that's right.
It sure does.
now without the benefits of being able to deduct interest your income tax
Of course it's been going down for a number of years,
this is the last year you can take anything.
I've enjoyed talking to you.
I've enjoyed talking to you.
maybe we'll get to talk again.
bye bye.
Bye bye.
I can tell you pretty much my two favorite shows
they kind of are in different spectrums, I think.
one of them is QUANTUM LEAP
the other one is NIGHT COURT.
they're real different,
I don't think they have anything in common,
kind of a comedy in its own way, I guess,
mostly kind of science fiction,
adventure and things like that
NIGHT COURT is just pure, weird fun,
nothing serious about it at all.
I don't know why the two of them happen,
to be my two favorite shows,
the way it is,
It's funny that those are favorite shows, too,
I enjoy of them,
I used to didn't like NIGHT COURT
the only reason I think I like it now is because I've seen it so much
I'm involved with the characters,
I used to think, Dan Fielding was just vulgar and too crude for me.
He is .
I told my husband, that's the whole point,
that's right,
I find him degrading at times.
I guess that is the point,
sometimes it just,
really have changed him though.
you've watched it this season, in his own way degrading and everything,
he's involved in that charity,
it's taking up so much of his time and so much of his thought, that he really has,
in fact, there was one show that he even turned down a date with some, beautiful woman just because the idea that was on the ozone layer
and, global warming and all this other kind of stuff.
he, was too depressed, to,
that was part of, I guess, his character building or whatever,
I think it little bit of depth to his character.
I haven't watched,
Which of course he needed .
I think so,
which in QUANTUM LEAP you get
even though the person is involved in so many other people's lives, you still see real person in those situations.
doing amazing things
he's doing them within the bounds of what a normal person would do
that's a good point,
I think that's,
I like that.
consider your favorite shows?
I think my favorite show is HUNTER.
like the old better when,
Dede was in there.
I agree.
the blond that they took out, the one that got killed
I can't remember what her name is,
I didn't enjoy her.
she was too much of a opposite of Dede,
I think that's what they try to do,
I think we wanted to see Dede there
or somebody like her.
I read an article HUNTER, and about three girls, whatever you want to call them
they say that, between her and him, that they never really could get her into, any character that they could use.
The second lady?
the second one
the blond
if you think about it, they didn't really interact hardly at all
They didn't.
they were never partners.
she would go her way,
he would do his,
I think that's what I didn't like.
at the beginning Dede Hunter would decide that one of them would go do this, while the other one this,
it seemed like it was almost two different organizations
Hunter was the boss,
this other girl was not,
when did this happen?
kind of agree with that.
I like the new lady better,
I'd just as soon that they didn't have the romance there.
I'd just as soon have police story without all the romance.
I'm afraid that's what really wanted to do,
I think most shows were doing that,
they went away from it
now they're starting to go back to it,
maybe that's what the public wants,
I don't know,
cut and dry solve the mystery,
that's what I always enjoyed about it.
there was that spark between Dede and Hunter for a while
started it,
they'd pull it back,
they'd start it and pull it back.
that really made it a very interesting, show to where you never really knew one was going to show up. whether it was going to, where they're going to be real close or whether they're just going to be partners,
I kind of thought was good,
it's, I guess,
you always kind of sit there
you see these two people together,
you always wonder, why they don't, get together
or whatever.
I guess that's what they decide to do
Just go ahead and
quit the wondering
always been a formula, for T V get married, that the show ends up, dying.
maybe it's not a good example.
I've been watching Nickelodeon all last week, because they had what they called MAXIMUM SMART.
They had GET SMART for, ten hours a day, from seven o'clock at night, until six or until five o'clock the next morning.
All the GET SMART episodes you could ever see.
last day, all they did was the last season, to where the two of them got married
the killer,
the series died right after that,
I didn't,
go ahead.
I was going to say, I didn't ever watch MOONLIGHTING,
I heard that's what killed it
same thing.
that, interplay died when they got married,
the show died.
it seems like you can do so much more of the subtle hints and the subtle little plays on things before they get married
the minute they get married, everything's supposed to be cut and dried
of course, another one of their mistakes, I think, is they have a tendency to change characters, or to change the characters', personalities
Halfway through,
especially after they get married.
couple of examples would be, like I said, this one about the female character
she had been at the beginning intelligent one, one who always solved the things figured out and kept Max from getting real messed up.
in short, whenever they got married, she got dingy.
why would they do that?
It made no sense.
guess it's falling back into our traditional stereotype which a lot of shows
Unfortunately, that's probably true.
which kind of,
like in the big soap opera shows, which I don't enjoy because of that,
do you watch, WHO'S THE BOSS?
on Tuesday nights I think.
I've seen it before,
I don't watch it regularly.
Usually Tuesday nights I'm out,
I hardly ever watch it,
I've seen it, done sort of the same thing to where started to let them get together,
they pulled them apart
I think they're thinking about that exact thing, about the idea that if the show lets them, get together, then you lose part of what the show's all about.
I always thought that was kind of weird.
it's funny how we romanticize people
for instance, where as the teenager, you rock star,
when he gets married, then you don't care any more
or something like that,
I think it's the same with your characters on T V.
Do you think that's why most rock stars nowadays keep their marriages secret, or at least they keep it quiet.
I know it affected me when I was younger.
I'm not into rock stars
too much lately,
like Madonna and Sean Penn.
I don't particularly like either one of them
their marriage was so highly publicized that there was no way that they could stay together
at least, that's the way I look at it.
I don't know,
it would have been hard,
wouldn't it.
I would think so.
I just, publicity in and of itself, much less the,
when you get married you've got relationship to develop in the first place,
having twenty million people watch you do that .
they wouldn't be easy.
that's kind of interesting.
I guess that's about all we need to do, isn't it.
I think we've covered our time.
It's been good talking to you.
it has been, Becky,
I really appreciate it.
You're the first man I've talked to,
everyone else has been a female,
this is a change.
I think I've,
you're the second female I've talked to.
You've had a little bit of variety,
it's kind of nice .
Okay ,
thanks so much.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
like I was saying, Burlington's crime, it doesn't involve children
what you see on the T V s Washington and New York.
what I believe the people want,
the subject big city crime, which is something that I don't have any first hand experiences about,
I have, concerns,
I have a few ideas of, how to combat it.
think, ideally, you need money to do everything
That's one thing
that's crime that you can't fight it if you need that money.
when, we lived in San Antonio,
I grew up around San Antonio,
it's always been a very large, city, and increasingly growing.
It's has kind of the split population.
there's a lot of retired military, individuals that live there,
there's a very large Hispanic population there.
the one thing that we noticed that over the years has gotten worse and worse is Hispanic, gang crime in the city
that has, been the worse thing that we've seen happening.
Does it spread out of the neighborhoods into retired people's community,
does it stay in the bad neighborhoods?
the majority of the actual gang crimes, like and stuff stays in the neighborhoods,
the crime spreads out into the more affluent divisions through robberies, rape car crime.
There's a percentage of car theft.
not far from the border to Mexico,
a lot of the, cars go to, shops,
they take them apart,
a lot of them go over the border, especially like Mercedes.
A lot of in Z, the Z cars, the Datsun cars end up over the border,
that's a big concern if you live there,
very much so,
is to really lock your car up .
very much so,
in fact, for a while there they had downtown if you were to come to a stop light, they had a rash of stopped at stop signs that people would get in their car and hold a knife and hold them up.
now, ever since then, when you drive into the city, most people keep their doors locked while they're in the car, until they get down there,
once you've reached river walk area, which is the tourist area, it's usually pretty safe during the day, if you're just kind of cautious and don't go down the back streets or alleys, or alone.
If you stay with the groups and along the area where they have the river patrol cops, it's very nice.
evening, again, have the high tourist area, the river walk area, which is nice,
you don't want to get off the beaten track.
there's a lot of parking garages there because parking is very tight.
you don't want to get caught in the parking garage, alone.
it sounds like, San Juan, Puerto Rico,
we were there just, for a lay over
it wasn't a lay over,
we were staying at the other end of the island,
we drove into San Juan to catch our plane.
It was at night,
this boy really wanted to go on the beach,
they look at you crazy
you don't go on the beach.
it's a big tourist town,
go for a walk on the beach at night?
they said, no,
it's very safe in the daytime
at night, they even have the policemen come around at dusk and sound their sirens, pretty much telling people, be wary, and get off the beach.
It's just so sad,
it is just really so sad,
it is just really so sad because you can't enjoy anything any more.
in San Antonio I don't know what the answer is.
Education, I think, is a lot of it.
so many of the kids are drop outs.
there's a lot of drugs that go on, and that they just have hopeless lives.
lead themselves down hopeless tunnels.
I think education helps a little bit there.
then again, I don't know really what steps there are that they,
say they try to do is to get the kids, early and young.
what we have here in Burlington, which it doesn't cost a lot of money, but they have a kids council
that they have all these after school activities for kids.
They set up kids with elderly people, in the winter time they shovel their snow.
They have a big brother, big sister program.
They have bottle drives,
they have cleanup outings.
they have also organized fun activities like gyms, going to the beach, and playing volleyball at the beach in the summer,
they have gyms open.
it seems that the younger you can get them and get them involved with programs
after school, you might keep them
need that one on one like a big brother, trying to hey stay in school,
it'll get better,
so that your mom doesn't have a job
she doesn't work,
you don't know,
you can be better than that.
You don't have to live for a street life.
that's good, that sounds like they've got a lot going on there.
it's so cheap they don't have a problem here.
they can deal with that
They might have five hundred troubled youths.
When you have five thousand troubled youths, plus when you're getting into kids now, it's twelve years old
they're selling drugs
they've got a fifteen year old that's their boss
that is carrying a gun.
the morals of the people which, I guess responsible for the society,
if I had a child did things so bad,
it's not, they don't care about anybody
these people they're stealing from, they're just the big bad rich guy
we don't have it,
we deserve it,
we should take it.
I don't know how you combat that.
don't know where you start with a lot of these kids,
so many of them, all they see is just the gangs
unless you can take them out of the environment enough to where they don't have the peer pressure from the gangs as soon as they come home from school.
I think a lot of it is the parents are totally irresponsible, too.
We're talking
these kids are fourteen years old.
The parents might be thirty years old
I'm thirty years old,
I'm kind of irresponsible,
I have the morals that keep me from,
if I was going to go out and drink or do something, I wouldn't do it in front of my child.
These people, they bring Johns home
they bring their drugs home
the kids are just sitting there in the same room.
It's just that they have absolutely morals
it's really sad.
I don't know how you combat that.
I rea ,
I don't know what the answer is to that problem,
I like your idea of education
huh ,
if the parents aren't supplying it, they've got to get it
from someone else
from the schools,
what do those kids do,
they get it at school and come home,
what do they do then.
feel, I feel for them,
I don't know how to make it better for them
because they can't remove themselves,
they can't just leave and say okay, it's not acceptable,
I'm leaving the big city, Mom,
going off,
when they're ten, they have to live in it,
it's really sad,
if they did have a big brother, big sister program
people trying to help the kids,
the parents might have hostilities towards them,
I think so,
Like you're judging us,
I'm not good enough to raise my child, which basically is true
I'm glad I don't live in a big city
I wouldn't feel safe,
it's just because that I would be reminded every day
of something that I don't see,
I might see it on SIXTY MINUTES special.
in San Antonio it was every day,
it was just a matter of who was shot that night,
I know it
San Antonio is considered a nice clean city, believe it or not .
they have all kinds of nice write ups about it
any big city has a bad section.
there's a lot of them,
it's very prevalent,
a lot of the crime is very prevalent.
they're very bold it seems.
very much.
When we moved here to Monterrey it was a big change, because it's such a small community,
we're just above Carmel,
there's hardly,
most everybody seems pretty well employed around here,
those that aren't,
there's Celinas which is about a fifteen minute drive, which is mostly migrant workers,
there's a lot of crime there, migrant Hispanic farm workers, people that are down and out,
they all seem to congregate in Celinas, not so much here in Monterrey.
pretty quiet.
we walk the streets at night,
people run in the park,
you're just,
have your normal smarts about you, then you really don't have to worry,
in the worst crime areas in Burlington,
can walk the streets.
I wouldn't,
did it every night
I think there would be trouble in our house,
you wouldn't get confronted or anything
I don't think you would,
someone might grab you, mess around with you,
they're not going to grab you, steal money and slit your throat
which in a lot of big cities
that's what going to have to expect that to happen.
People are just totally unfeeling.
I didn't know that about Burlington,
I'll have to keep that in mind .
let's see,
believe in the trial by jury.
I think if it was up to the judge alone that there would be real possible for, payoffs, briberies, unfairness, one sidedness, all those kinds of things.
I also like the unanimous decision because you have to persuade everybody to be a hundred percent, absolutely sure before you convict somebody.
really agree with the, innocent until proven guilty theory.
I think a good way to do it.
That's about all.
basically we're in a lot of agreement, in that I certainly agree that for any case involving serious injury to another person then maybe that needs, some kind of legal definition.
for anything involving that, trial by jury certainly should be mandatory.
huh .
there should be with our overworked, judicial system,
it seems to me like there ought to be a means not having to take everything before a full court.
maybe there ought to be some kind (( ))
isn't there a type of word called a jury duty now.
maybe instead just kind of blowing it off just spend a day or a day and a half like most folks do, maybe we should commit to spend a week,
during that week you're kind of an ad hoc, group of, I don't know, twenty five instead of twelve
each case is presented to that group of twenty five,
those cases are, lesser degrees of magnitude.
the guy was caught burgling,
he had his pockets full of stuff, when he was caught
that kind of stuff you can just turn to the judge and say, your pleasure your honor,
there's not a lot of discussion about that kind of thing.
the way works, that guy is going to have to hang around in jail or out on bail or something like that for an extreme period of time.
I just think our system is overworked,
we're starting to stretch the true meaning right to a speedy trial.
a good idea.
Maybe this pre group of people could decide, from there.
Do they need a big lengthy twelve person
do they need a six person jury or, those kinds of things
the degree seriousness of it,
is this open and shut, like you were saying,
do you need somebody to go off for three months and try to figure out what really happened. a jury like that.
They could be a good idea to,
that could work.
kind of (( )) off what we've been talking about here, I believe that we've become almost a litigious society where is very quick to sue or to threaten to sue and that kind of stuff,
although we supporting a whole segment of society called lawyers, maybe we don't need to do that.
maybe, instead of being so quick to sue you, if you have a disagreement with someone, instead of tying up court and time and that kind of stuff, maybe you,
if you want to, your lawyer or opponent need to go face this group of twenty five or a judge (( )) like
Good idea.
they have on T V
let either he or that group decide whether or not you have a real case.
get rid of some of this harassment suing.
a good idea.
in the BIBLE it says, if you have something against somebody, to go to them first,
if that doesn't work, then to go get somebody, a little bit more wiser and older and take them with you and go to them,
if that doesn't work, to take it to the whole church.
that's right off that same kind of principle.
You bet,
good idea.
If we could all deal with those kinds of beliefs we wouldn't have half the,
that's true,
that's true, too.
that whole Biblical concept like true in a lot of our,
way the whole judicial system and the government is based on that.
It doesn't work on that,
it's based out of that.
could work,
I'd forgotten what that's called.
There's real name for that like the Judean law, or something like that.
what is that called?
The Judeo Christian ethic.
Judeo Christian ethic.
that may be right.
It's in there some place.
I think we both know that we're talking about
the foundation of our legal society.
too, the,
that was sort of the beginning of, Ye shall be treated fairly.
I guess the Lord started out with, there as long as you do what I say.
that's sort of the Old Testament version.
I know,
I did a Sunday school lesson one time on the difference between the Old Testament and the New Testament
there's a vengeful Lord in the Old Testament and there's a loving Lord in the New Testament.
that's a whole different subject.
think we have exhausted my pitifully small knowledge
Mine, too.
the legal system.
mine, too.
it's been a pleasure talking with you.
same here.
part of the country are you from?
I'm living here in Texas.
I was just being curious.
that's quite all right.
I'm from the Dallas area.
so am I .
In fact, I'm at work out at Lewisville.
are you really?
I'll let you go.
it was nice talking to you.
My pleasure.
Have a good day.
You too.
Bye bye.
don't think that wrong for a company to require drug testing for certain types of positions.
For instance, jobs that require use of heavy machinery and things like that endangerment to their own life and other people's lives.
I agree with that.
People that are, driving
like, truck driver's and things like that.
I definitely think they should be tested.
opposed to any testing.
because I know I certainly wouldn't want be endangered by somebody in a company that accidentally dropped something on me because he was on drugs while he was there.
feel about, companies drug testing prior to hiring?
I was tested, within my company.
I think it's kind of a push to, weed out drugs in states
I don't know of any other countries that are doing this
feel like it's really just within the United States.
I think your record should stand for itself. That, if you've been tested at other companies you've always come up negative whatever, then I don't see what the big deal is that they have to go to all the expense
of testing you over and over and over.
once you've established the fact that you're not a drug user and especially if your personality proves that you're not. I think they could, save money by not doing that. every time,
if you change jobs you wouldn't have to do it if you'd just been tested at your other work place.
what about random testing, though.
Do you feel like that's an of certain people's rights if not everyone is tested?
not if it's done fairly.
that's probably my question is, do you know it's done fairly.
I don't know that you do.
If it's random, then it's random
that's not necessarily fair.
they might tell you it's random.
it's kind of like lottery.
Somebody in their lifetime may win millions of dollars where another person doesn't win anything, and tries and tries and tries.
that, for instance, in the N C double A, they drug test
it's not random.
I see.
they, how do they pick their people?
I think all college players have to do an initial drug test at a certain point prior to the season
from that point on, the N C double A does have something to do with it,
it's almost discretionary on the coach's part of each individual institution to identify the ones that have the problem.
I see.
do you ...
the ones that test positive have to retest after a certain period of time.
do you think that should be implemented in the work place. as like a manager or supervisor thinks or has suspicion that someone is using drugs,
do you think they should have the right to send them
not being a
to be tested.
drug user I don't have a problem with that personally
I think that might be a violation of someone's rights.
If someone's having personal problems for some reason that's causing them to behave differently
their manager assumes they have a drug problem
if someone assumed that of me, I would be upset.
would almost be like ...
It's an accusation,
it's based a perception as how a drug user would behave when some drug users behave, normal,
how would you feel afterwards when you came up negative and, your supervisor has accused you of using drugs.
I think almost the only way that drug testing can be done fairly is if it's across the board the janitors to the executive management.
I agree with that.
I know personally myself, I've been in the same job for three years,
it will be three years in August
I've already been drug tested three times.
What type of job do you have?
I'm an environmental engineer
I've been drug tested three times
I know many people that have never been tested in their lifetime
the company I work for is sixty thousand people, plus.
come up three times.
That's pretty high statistics.
you to drive company equipment or to any type of machinery that might
endanger someone?
not at all.
that doesn't,
I ...
It's a legal job,
it's really strange.
That is odd.
I was drug tested, not for the job I have now, but for the prior job,
I know that the job I had before, that,
the job I now, requested medical record from my old company
I don't know if I wasn't drug tested based on that or because the man who hired me didn't request the drug test, because I know that my company does drug testing on occasion.
the company for instance, does the company you worked for have the right or do they have the ability to say, hey, we've already drug tested her
she came up negative.
I don't think force another company to not drug test me just by saying that
they don't know that I don't use drugs.
They just tested me once.
I used to work for a power company,
it was very important that they make sure their employees, especially linemen
were clean.
since I was just, one of the office folk, I guess it wasn't as important to them that they test me regularly.
I know they test most of the service people fairly regularly
just across the board.
are they tested random?
all of them are tested
They're ...
once every three mo ,
it's a rotation.
I see.
again, it depends on what job you're in.
The men that are out there fixing power lines are tested a lot
the men that drive the trucks
the guys that fix the power lines aren't tested as much.
they make that clear to them as they hire those guys
I see.
the drug testing schedule is.
They say testing you tomorrow
we'll test you every three months thereafter while you work here.
they know that.
that's ...
made very clear upon hiring.
have we spent our at least five minutes?
I think so.
seven twenty five.
nice speaking to you.
Nice talking to you.
Bye bye
what kind of car are you thinking about getting?
none at the moment .
when you decide to.
I currently drive Ford Taurus.
that if I change or if I get I will go with the Taurus or something similar, in that regard.
you like the Ford?
I have had it for about two years now
everything it's supposed to be.
I haven't had a minutes trouble with it
the only thing I have against it in that's it's a Taurus,
uncomfortable driving it, because I had a Honda before that
it's a little bit larger.
that's difference that I see, really.
I would,
criteria American, personally,
it's the,
the car I had before this one was a Thunderbird
as a matter of fact,
I loved it,
I really did.
I finally decided to go check out foreign cars were.
I bought myself a Nissan
a two forty S X.
even though I love the car I've got now, I think my next car will probably be American again
because if I can at all do it, I'd like to stay American,
I always have, up until now.
I just for one time decided to go outside.
my wife still has Honda
price and so forth,
I'm not a real car fan.
I do not, opt for, something that would be, expensive
something that's something that I can use
with the Taurus,
I have a Taurus, L X,
you're talking when you think about price, it's several thousand dollars lower than the comparable Honda or Nissan or something along those lines.
as I said, as far I'm concerned, has been extremely, serviceable and everything I wanted.
Ford's done a real good job in the last, ten years
or at least the last five to years, of really turning around their, quality, I think,
I think so too.
in travel and renting automobiles
I've driven, Chevrolet automobiles
if it's Chevrolet, I just will not touch it.
I had a Chevrolet before I bought my Taurus.
I purchased Chevy, Citation.
those were not good cars.
I was ready to get rid of it two months after I bought it,
shopped around,
if I had thought I, wanted to pay the amount of money, I probably would have gone with, an Accord
or even Civic, or something comparable from Nissan
or Toyota,
it was just,
a friend who, has auto shop,
he purchased one of the first Sables that was, manufactured for his wife, a Sable station wagon,
he just absolutely swore by it.
it was upon his recommendation and so forth for, equipped, with cruise control and air conditioning and A M F M radio, and all these other things
it was just,
the only thing that I find, if I would have anything against it is that it still has that soft American ride.
that's about the only thing I find, disadvantageous to it.
my criteria, is simply something that looks good, something that's serviceable,
drive around a lot,
very comfortable on the highway.
I can drive for, ten hours or so and not really be tired in any way.
those are my criteria,
probably in another six months to a year or something will probably start looking around again,
if there's something out there that, is comparable to what I have now, I'll go ahead and get it.
the only thing I'm looking,
at right now,
bought, the Nissan that I've got about, nine months ago,
I guess it was .
the only thing would get me to change cars right now would be if,
at the moment I'm single,
if I were to get married and have a family that would have to have something to do with it.
I don't have any plans for probably another two, three years of even looking,
cars are too expensive right now to,
to even think about buying new cars every couple of years,
In our parking lots, two or three days ago I saw one of the new Honda sports cars.
can't remember what the name is.
It's the thirty five or forty thousand dollar one, whatever it is,
a Mazaratti
very, very closely.
it's an absolutely beautiful automobile
and well appointed and so forth,
to pay that much money for an automobile, is just,
conceive of doing that .
I went to car show down here two weeks ago,
of course they had the normal, the Ford, Chevrolet, that stuff.
then you started looking at the,
they had Ferrari there, they had, B M W and all these other kinds of cars.
Ferrari didn't even let you near the car,
they were,
that's how expensive they were.
then you saw, hundred thousand dollar cars,
you saw eighty thousand dollar cars,
though I do enjoy cars, I enjoy, driving them, I enjoy, riding in them and everything, I can't see more for a car than I would for a house,
That's true.
That doesn't seem likely.
The difference there between us is that I am not really crazy about driving.
I never have been, since, my parents had to force me to get my driver's license when I was young
when I was sixteen.
I've never really cared.
what I was,
before I was married and before I went to graduate school, I used to do little sports car racing.
my own car
it was always someone else's.
that sort of thing I enjoy,
to go out and drive, never has really any appeal to me
in that regard.
. I guess we've discussed that enough
don't you think.
I think so.
we won't get the recorder or the, system to shut us off, tonight.
That's happened to me almost every time I've,
That's happened to me once,
it's very easy when that, you enjoy.
I think the one time I did it was on the Mid East, the crisis out there.
That a great conversation,
then they came off and told us we couldn't do it any more.
I was talking to a lady last evening,
we were talking about fishing,
we were cut off,
we were told to quit.
you have a pleasant evening.
You too.
Take care.
Bye bye.
Good bye.
what do you think about it?
I guess more concerned about public safety than I am about concern for the private, the idea of,
preserving privacy for,
the individual,
I can't really see why anyone, who has nothing to hide would object.
there is always possibility, even remote as it is, mistaken, of,
certainly true,
that bothers me.
I'm, I'm very much for drug testing,
I really am.
to take the negative side just for a second,
just to do it.
I have to take, medication for kidney transplant.
I'm going to be taking that the rest of my life.
I don't know how that's going to affect,
If you had to have a drug test?
I haven't had one yet.
T I,
I work for Texas Instruments
do have the random drug testing
I've missed it so far.
always bothers me.
what happens if they catch it,
they think that on drugs
they send me have me, go through
Checked out or whatever.
it seems to me that there are ways to accommodate that.
I agree some innocent person might be victimized,
by a false test,
I would think some guidelines could be set up to avoid that.
For example, that one, positive would not be, accepted as an automatic, reason for whatever they might be going,
to do if they found a positive, dismissal or treatment or whatever, what it would do is it would trigger, perhaps, one or two more stages where further tests could be done.
be people like you, or in other circumstances, that could come up false positives for certain kind of drugs.
On the other hand, I think there's certainly some professions that ought to be tested
because responsibility for the public welfare, and certainly people in, industries, the transportation industry,
in cases whether or not an individual has a problem with drugs, it's not even going to effect anybody but and his own family, perhaps, depending on the kind of drug he might be on.
eventually that's going to show up anyway in the way he works,
and so on.
there's so many things that it would make a difference.
I guess I would not want to have anyone in my family, victimized by bus driver or a train engineer or something like that, who, hadn't been tested.
I said, very much pro testing,
this is why.
number one is I'm kind of,
I know this sounds like a slogan for the government,
are in a war against,
you don't know whether the person sitting next to you
anywhere is on drugs or not,
it takes some drastic steps at this point.
I think, personally, the drastic step has to be you can't work if you continue taking drugs.
it's as simple as that.
make it so,
Make it difficult enough.
make it, ma , not necessarily difficult,
make it so that it's not glamorous.
it's glamorous taking drugs,
at least it seems that way.
according to what you,
you hear.
The people who, have serious problems,
we have,
I guess we're kind of lucky.
We really only know of one, young man a fam ,
they go to our church,
it's the son and so on,
he was friends with my children
he's really the only one that I know of personally who got himself really messed up, been involved with drugs.
I know of a number of other people who have, gotten all messed up.
Most of these are young people.
I work in the education system
I have a little more contact with that.
the effect that it's had on this young man's life is so dramatic that it's heartbreaking
he may never really be a productive member of society.
sadder than that, he may never be able to have a normal, happy life because it has strung him out so that he has anxieties now that almost uncontrollable.
puts himself in the hospital fairly regularly thinking that, not sure if he's going try to commit suicide or not.
so messed up.
this was a nice, sweet, young man who, teenager,
he's now a young man about twenty, I guess, who, just got really down the wrong path.
I don't know his problem would ever have been detected by drug testing.
seeing what drugs did to him what it could do to people, in the work force as well.
it's horrible.
answer the second half of the question.
What limits ought to be put on it, do you think?
the limits, would, I think, have to do with what I'd alluded to before, one positive on a drug test,
would not constitute, dismissal or grounds for whatever the company or agency might, have set up for those who genuinely have a problem.
In other words, there needs to be, more than,
Treatment before for dismissal type thing.
Pard ,
there needs to be more than one test,
there needs to be measure of, certainty before anything drastic happens.
There are lots of things that are involved there, such as, perhaps, insurance
denial of insurance for someone,
undoubtedly there are people who would be victimized by this,
it would be unfair,
people who are on medication, for example, or, even people who might be of the gay community,
I'm not an advocate for that particular segment of society,
I think that there doesn't need to be fuel to the fire for discrimination
it makes a bigger problem.
it seems to me there needs to be
that protect.
I'm not sure, though, when we talk about what rules, if any, that we should say, certain segments should not have to be tested.
I really don't see why,
Personally, I think that's what I was about to say
is that everyone needs to be tested.
I don't,
I don't know why it would be, bad to test just every ,
it may be,
it's not feasible to do everyone,
certainly random testing, the fact that people know they,
That it could happen.
would be some measure of protection.
the bottom line is you're going to stay clean and straight, then, going to do that because you want to.
there's going to be some measure of incentive, reward or whatever,
the reward ultimately comes down to what you want.
got to agree with that.
That's very true.
it sounds like we agree, anyway.
I think so.
did pretty good.
all right,
I guess that's about it.
I guess if that's all we've done
I guess we've talked long enough.
All right.
It was nice talking to you.
to you, too.
bye bye.
All right,
bye bye.
do you own a P C?
I don't,
I have one at,
the company I work for furnishes,
I can work at home.
it's just an compact, that is super slow
it's job,
What processor does it have in it?
I don't know,
it's so old.
It's one of,
what kind of work do you do on it?
I do, television ratings
I process some ratings and graphics for their television stations,
(( )) their clients,
It's basically just data entry and running, software
it doesn't really have to be anything sophisticated,
I don't own a P C
I work for T I
my husband does, too,
I have, a fairly fancy one,
it's a T I model.
It's an S P one thousand which, has a fast processor in it, a three eighty six.
job that I do,
I do a lot of training of our customers for new products.
I have to develop, functional (( specs )) (( desk )) top publishing and everything,
it's kind of fun,
always say that I need to buy a computer for the house
I just haven't got around to doing it yet.
I'd like to have one for the house, too,
sometimes (( )) says usually, I work on the computer all day at work,
I don't want to come home and have to work on one, (( too )) .
Your husband, group is your husband in?
something with the defense.
Oh, (( )) ?
Defense systems and electronics group?
something like that,
they've changed their name so many times I've lost track,
I see.
He works up in Plano.
I work on, printers and,
the peripheral products division, basically,
I work in the airline, group.
do a lot of,
I didn't even know they had anything like that.
there's so,
I learned so many things that do,
they're into so many different things,
I just kind of,
(( )) in for a while,
one of those, what are they, top secret things,
where he couldn't talk about what he did,
For a while
then he switched jobs.
I don't understand half the stuff he does
I have,
Is he a programmer?
I see.
Software design engineer, as they call it,
I have a degree in information management,
which is computer,
it's basically the, more the end of it than the programming end of it,
I've been at it for, five years,
Everything's changed so much I probably couldn't even get a job right now.
It seems like it's changed so much,
they've made such advances in computers,
does your husband ever use, a laptop or a notebook?
Does he bring a little one home with him
sometimes home portable one,
quit working
he just hasn't brought another one home.
they did give him a new computer at work,
I see.
build, laptop and notebook computers here in Temple also.
those are really handy,
have modems in them, you can send a fax from your P C,
how nice,
he doesn't have one of those,
What's that?
He doesn't have one of those.
pretty handy because, when I travel, it's easy to check messages,
plug in the phone to your computer and dial in
my husband doesn't have to travel,
I just found out I'm going to Denver Sunday night again.
at least you get to,
that kind of reeks havoc with plans,
really not enough to become a big hassle.
that's good.
Some people enjoy the travel
I don't think I'd like it, if (( he traveled a lot )) .
I see.
I would love to have a computer,
they're so expensive.
I don't know,
there, you can get,
depends on what you consider expensive,
you can get real high powered stuff now for under two thousand dollars, where, just a few years ago it would have been six, seven, eight, nine thousand dollars.
Yeah. D You know,
I guess it's, inexpensive compared to what it used to be
it's a lot to put into one.
it's still,
two thousand dollars isn't pocket change to a lot of people .
That's right .
it's not.
not pocket change,
it's major (( )) .
Maybe when the kids get in school that will be,
when they start needing something, then that will be different
when I started at, T I, I was a Summer development student,
and finishing up at school
those papers really,
it was nice having access to the,
equipment to,
I remember that.
I had to do some of my husband's papers because I had access to one
was more for scientific stuff than for word processing,
I did a lot of his papers.
they come in real handy,
that was a lifesaver.
how many different types of packages do you use?
At home?
all I,
the packages don't really use,
use that (( )) outside development that we use most of it's just stuff that's been written in (( house )) that I use.
I've got,
at work anyway, I use WordPerfect and Lotus and,
I know those two.
and (( )) which is, line draw package.
I've just used WordPerfect and Lotus the most.
You probably use (( )) or something like that,
for your, data entry stuff that your,
talking about.
A lot of the data entry stuff they used, survey system just in house programs to do what they needed.
I work,
at home all the time
I worked for this company before I had my first daughter,
they just wanted me to continue working for them at home doing other things,
that worked out pretty good then.
it did.
a lot of what I used to do,
I just do, something really minor
it's something that nobody else wants to do,
it's time consuming.
it keeps you in the company,
That's right,
it gives me a paycheck,
three weeks.
Goes for three to four weeks three times a year,
it's not something that's continual because, the television ratings don't come out, all the time.
They only come out four times a year,
I tell you if I could bring a computer home and do stuff here, I'd get all kinds of stuff done.
Phone's always ringing
people always asking me to do something else.
I've got a lot of,
especially right now, we've got several new products coming out,
I've got lots of documentation I need to review and some I need to revise.
will they let you take a computer home to work?
I need to be at the office, too.
, I've just got to deal, with all those other things that happen
a P C at the house would really take a lot of the load off.
I bet.
my hu , he took one home big deadline coming up
it was looking a little touchy to meet,
done that before on, a couple times.
that would make it just that much easier
instead of bringing home a computer, you just bring home a few floppy disks,
that's right.
I thought that would be,
it's real nice with this because I don't even have to go into the office
I've maybe been into the office once in the past (( three )) years,
send me everything and pick it up courier or whatever,
Man that sounds really nice.
It is real nice,
I just deal with them on the telephone,
half the people don't even know who they're talking to.
I, worked,
I know most of them,
I can't say that,
a lot of people changed around there
most people know who I am,
I don't know who they are,
A lot of them just know me by name and phone voice.
I've got a lot of folks that I've worked with like that as well.
you just know them by the telephone,
it's been good talking to you,
I think (( we've )) (( )) (( got )) the subject .
we sort of stayed to the topic anyway.
we tried.
It's hard to sometimes.
we'll talk to you later.
Okay, thanks,
bye, bye.
Perhaps this connection,
it still echoes.
Do you like to cook?
I love it.
I do too.
kind of hard to find time sometimes
Do you work?
have a family?
I don't have a family,
usually work about fifty hours a week
by the time I get home I'm so tired it's hard to cook a full meal.
I expect so.
for a dinner party, I think one of my favorite things is baked chicken and white wine.
really weird that you said that because for a dinner party, mine is a chicken in a marsala wine sauce,
Oh .
. Where did you get your recipe for it?
I guess mostly out of an international cookbook that I have.
mine actually came from the, Texas Instruments Cafeteria.
They have a T I plant in Texas, in Kingsport?
we have,
it's in Johnson City.
the cafeteria is real good about putting out recipes, once a month,
they'll put out a recipe of the month.
put this one out
I tried it
it was really good.
What a marsala wine a sweeter wine?
a little bit sweeter.
it's a red wine.
I'm trying to think what else.
roll it in bread crumbs and, Parmesan cheese,
with a little bit of oil,
and pour the wine sauce over it like the last twenty minutes,
so that it gets just enough flavor.
it kind of browns
you put wine over it.
That sounds real good.
it's really easy too
What do you use (( )) ?
What do you serve with it?
What do you serve with it?
I like to serve, a wild rice with it.
That's what I do too .
This is really neat.
we're big broccoli fans.
that's what I've got.
I've got steamed broccoli down on mine .
don't think you can go wrong with something like that.
it's great.
I've got a good dessert recipe.
do you like angel food cake?
I just break it up in a glass bowl,
I mix up, some cream cheese and a little bit of Amaretta wi , and some cool whip,
I make a thickened blueberry sauce
I layer it with, angel food cake and the blueberries and then that topping.
What time should we be there? .
That sounds wonderful .
I love desserts,
since there's only two of us,
it's really,
try to avoid making anything that, too fancy, that,
we'd like too much and eat too much .
what you mean.
We don't eat desserts much any more.
guess one I really like, that I haven't made in awhile,
called a fruit pizza.
you take a, sugar cookie, recipe,
spread it out on a pizza pan.
you make it like a pizza crust,
bake that
you, take things like kiwi,
and strawberries and bananas and whatever fresh fruit you want
cream cheese and a little bit of orange juice
I can't remember what else is in it
you make kind of a glaze,
you layer your fresh fruit on that.
and pour that over it?
That sounds great.
It is really good,
It would be pretty.
it's real light
depending on the fruit you use real colorful.
Especially with the kiwi and the strawberries.
That would be pretty.
usually I just opt for brownies and vanilla ice cream .
We've been fixing something lately that,
we've been cooking a lot of,
turkey breasts.
Because it's low fat.
it's just so much better for you.
I've been making a hot sandwich.
I toast a piece of whole wheat bread,
and then put the turkey on it and then slices of the low fat Swiss cheese
I make a little honey mustard dressing and put over it,
and pop it in the microwave.
That sounds great.
It is delicious.
I wouldn't mind serving that to anybody.
that just, doesn't take a long time to fix,
it's really good,
it's really good for you.
it's real quick.
we eat out a lot
there are sometimes you just don't feel like eating out,
I wish I had something a little bit different,
to just zap together.
ma ,
mix up a little, mayonnaise with some dijon mustard,
and honey until it just,
I mix it until it just tastes good to me.
I was going to say, do you just mix it to taste?
it's real good.
it keeps in the refrigerator.
How long, does it keep,
do you,
you wouldn't have to make,
it keeps a long time.
you wouldn't have to mix that much together even.
it keeps a long time.
I'm sorry I keep coughing.
I've had a bad cold.
I put a little, yogurt in it too.
Plain yogurt?
If I,
just plain yogurt.
It gives it a little tang.
I'll bet that is really good.
It makes a great sandwich.
I'm going to have to think of that.
We're getting company tonight,
(( are you )) .
I have been debating what to cook because one of my guests is a vegetarian.
that's kind of hard.
we're going to,
I think we'll try to do something a little bit,
we might try to grill some flounder or salmon steaks.
They'll eat fish?
She'll eat fish.
I usually,
when they come down I'll grill those
and brush on a little lemon butter sauce
definitely go with, it will have to be a rice dish
that sounds good.
lots of vegetables,
to make up for the lack of meat.
I had a recipe from that, INTERNATIONAL COOKBOOK TWO, that's a great salad in summertime.
garden or not?
we don't,
our next door neighbors do
times they'll give us something.
(( )) it's just sliced tomatoes
I put it on a glass plate because it looks real pretty.
Sliced tomatoes and then green pepper strips,
just over it,
and some red onion slices,
and just a little bit of, basil,
and then a little Italian dressing over it.
everybody loves it
it's so easy,
it's delicious.
That's what I was just thinking,
it doesn't sound like would be hard at all.
it isn't.
where did you get,
you can put some cucumber slices on too.
where did you get this cook book?
I got it at the Checkbook Store.
it's got pictures,
in there that are inspiring.
It's going to say, edited by Charlotte Turgeon, editor of,
I'm not french, (( LaRoute,
Gastro LaMink ))
the creative cooking course.
I'll might have to visit the State Book Store.
I'm trying to see who it's published by, Ottenheimer,
I've never heard of it.
I haven't either.
This edition is published by Bonanza Books.
It's a big book
it was not expensive.
the ones that wanting to get,
I guess you've seen the THREE HUNDRED SIXTY FIVE WAYS TO COOK CHICKEN,
and the THREE HUNDRED SIXTY FIVE WAYS TO COOK PASTA,
wanting to get those because we eat a lot of chicken,
we do eat a lot of pasta.
We do too.
Yeah .
just said the other night it wouldn't be too difficult without red meat.
That's right.
I don't think it would.
we don't have that much of it now.
As long as we have plenty of vegetables,
and lots of chicken.
I stir fried some the other night though.
Some, beef and broccoli strips,
it was good,
it didn't have much beef in it .
Wok that we don't use near as often as we used to.
We used to stir fry a lot, especially, a lot of chicken a lot of rice dishes.
it just takes the time to cut everything up.
usually if I take a day off or on the weekend especially, I try to cook,
huh .
at least cook a couple of dishes ahead.
that we can have those to enjoy.
One of my daughters sent me a COLORADO COOK BOOK, put out by the Junior League of Denver.
Have you ever seen any put out by Junior Leagues?
Cause, we have some,
they are great.
some local ones.
we have a share alike column in the paper,
where people, write in and share recipes or write in and say I'm looking for this recipe,
that's where I get a lot of my recipes.
They are aren't they?
a real good one from a doctor's office one time.
is that right,
what was that? .
a baked bean recipe.
huh .
you mix baked beans and Lima beans
let's see, I guess,
You buy the beans?
Just mix the canned beans together,
and brown sugar and molasses and bake them in catsup,
you just bake it.
spicier baked bean dish.
that sounds .
you can add hamburger if you want,
to give it a little more body.
That sounds good.
try to always keep my eyes open because a lot of time you can really good recipes where you wouldn't even think about it.
Right .
I try to always keep a little notebook in my purse.
Jot them down,
it's been,
I guess we're on.
hang on
let me try it again because usually ,
Do you usually get a message?
Hang on let me check (( on it )) .
I don't know.
let me try it once more .
I think we're on, maybe.
I guess we'll find out .
in Maryland a Skins fan?
really from,
I really wasn't from here
the teams I really root for in football are the Niners and the Seahawks, mostly because, only the Niners because I used to live out in California,
I like Seattle because I like Seattle
besides I like the city.
you were out there in San Francisco?
San Jose, but
but close,
it's, other than big catch, with the Forty niners and the Cowboys a few year ago I like San Francisco.
don't know
never really was a Cowboys fan until I moved down to Texas.
is that where you are now?
I'm in Dallas
I guess when you're down here in Dallas you finally get indoctrinated into the Cowboys
because, this is a big football territory down here.
unfortunately, of course, the Cowboys have been doing so bad in the past few years.
I don't know,
everybody's kind of,
they're still behind them
it's not like it used to be.
back the winners
you don't back them when they're not doing well .
That's right .
I think, trying to follow, the Cowboys over the years I think, they used to have philosophy for, I don't know, probably the last twenty five years except for about the last about five or six years
they always went out and tried to draft best, athletes.
And didn't really put them draft for any particular spot.
they would go out and try to go for, the best people and then mold them into different areas or find their natural niche.
then about they started going after, specific players or positions,
the press would get down on Landry,
this is when Schramm was still there.
they'd go after them saying, jeez what you really need is a defensive end.
they'd go out and try to find a defensive end
drafted somebody and he didn't workout at that spot it really wasn't a good enough athlete to move to any place else.
I think it was kind ever interesting.
I think the decline Cowboys as a powerhouse really kind of started with, not drafting
It makes sense because, got the flexibility if they're good athlete they can, do a bunch of different things.
I don't,
my, my main sport is baseball
I've been enjoying football
I don't know it as well.
I just,
Cowboys are going to have a problem aren't they?
this year they don't have a draft pick because of the Walker trade
what was the whole deal on that?
they still have some draft picks,
They don't,
that they got,
have anything high do they?
they picked up some from Minnesota.
I think it was, Minnesota's (( )) ,
that's right,
that's right.
it went the other way.
What was I thinking.
they traded
They traded Walker,
yeah .
to Minnesota.
My brain is really working well tonight.
That's okay,
I've got a friend that, lives right next to the Cowboys' training camp.
them out running a lot
every once in a while gets a chance to talk to some of the guys
thinking that, they really got something going this year,
guess, when you have a whole bunch of, professional athletes that get together at the beginning of the year everybody's got great hopes.
D You,
know, I guess it's the same way with baseball anybody,
Spring training until you actually start going out and out against the competition everything probably looks pretty good.
if you go to,
I'm sure if you go to any of the twenty eight coaches in football in training camp they say, we're going to be Super Bowl Champs
really .
in baseball, any manager you go to say, we're going to be in the World Series,
even though, (( there's )) not a prayer .
this is the way it is.
(( Kim )) , didn't the Cowboys even finish,
they finished pretty close to five hundred last year didn't they?
they did. As a matter of fact,
they only won one game the year before, right?
I enjoyed that because it was against the Skins.
like the Skins?
I live near Baltimore
really don't like D C a whole lot at all .
I'm really,
they got a big thing because of the expansion going on in baseball.
D C is talking about they're going to get a baseball team and everything.
It's like you guys aren't going to get a baseball team, I'm sorry it's not going to happen.
of course, the one, the griping is that if Washington doesn't get baseball team then Baltimore shouldn't get a football team. Which is probably true,
anyway, never liked D C a whole lot
a really hate the Redskins.
of course,
a lot of it's because, I got a lot of people, at work with and everything that are big Redskin fans.
of course, then you're not that far from Philadelphia.
never liked the city a whole lot.
The only reason I really enjoy the Eagles at all is because, I really like Randall Cunningham.
it was Buddy Ryan, the one that I can't, stand too much.
Ye ,
considering well he gets along with, Jimmy Johnson that doesn't surprise me.
the Baltimore Sun has this, cartoonist in the sports section
I guess it was January, when, Jimmy Johnson got named coach of the year or whatever.
It was the same year that Buddy Ryan got fired.
he had this cartoon in there about Jimmy Johnson's big day,
the first thing is the phone call league saying he coach of the year
the second was this phone call from Buddy Ryan, I got fired can you believe that .
you said you lived near, Baltimore?
You're out,
I used to travel out that way a lot
I used to drive a lot between Baltimore and Washington
I lived,
do you know what Ellicott City is?
it's just west of Baltimore, Route Seventy.
basical , Route Seventy Route Forty.
I used to go out of B W I a lot.
that's not far from where new football stadium would be if we got an N F L team .
built a new stadium downtown,
it's opening next year.
Is that the, what do they,
I forgot the name of it.
Is it the, the Wharf or
The Inner Harbor.
Inner Harbor.
It's, a couple of blocks west.
railroad yard,
there's a big long railroad shed
there's, an old station
they're building the stadium on the other side of the shed from the Inner Harbor, which is really stupid because one of the big selling points of the new stadium is supposed to be this view of the Inner Harbor
the only way you're going to have a view of is this big brick wall ,
they're building the baseball stadium
they've got land set aside for a football stadium if they ever get a N F L team.
it's, real easy access south of Baltimore the airport or more importantly for the Orioles from Washington D C.
The Orioles say they get twenty five percent of from D C.
I tell you what I,
the Colts to me are the Baltimore Colts.
They really ought to change the name I think in Indianapolis.
I, never been real thrilled with, not,
sitting here and talking about all the cities that I hate,
went to Purdue University for a couple of years and,
really learned to hate Indianapolis while I was out there .
I was not real happy they, left to there of all places .
did you graduate from Purdue?
I transferred to Delaware and graduated there.
there's not a whole lot in Delaware.
it's close to Philadelphia and Baltimore,
that's true.
I take it you're an east coast type guy?
kind of all over the place but,
Plus the west,
eas ,
coast, right? .
east coast lately,
Do you have any children?
I don't.
You don't.
Do you?
I have, one. A five year old daughter.
Did you ever have her in child care?
I do.
She was, at a private,
I stayed off work with her for little over of a year
when she was born.
I had her at a private sitter for, I guess, two, two and a half years after that.
how did you choose that sitter?
she was referred to me by a couple of people
she turned out to be wonderful.
I couldn't have asked for anything better, I don't think.
I didn't want to her straight to a day care.
even though she was that old, I still didn't want her to go to a day care.
this lady, you would think it was her own.
She's real good.
It's hard to find people like that.
It is.
now I have got her in a Montessori school.
she's really, really doing good and learning a lot.
I've started working up there in the afternoons, too.
that's neat.
Y ,
I guess. I'm going to quit as soon as season's over.
I really enjoyed being with her up there.
I hate it for her,
she has to stay that much longer,
Do they have classes for them during the summer, too?
go year round,
teach them.
Now, in the summer they have a lot of field trips.
There's a field trip just about every day if they want to go on one, and stuff like that.
It's a lot more lax.
they still go through all their, curriculum as usual.
What kind of questions did you ask about the private sitter before you took her over there?
gosh .
I ca ,
my husband and I both went.
We kind of give her the third degree .
good ,
I'm glad to hear that.
we went over to her house,
we told her, pro ,
here we'd be over that day.
We didn't tell her when.
that way I didn't think, D y ,
you know, the house would be, cleaned or anything for me specifically.
she had a daughter,
I want to say her daughter was like six or seven, right around first, second grade.
at the time she kept child, about a four year old, I believe.
it was only like a part time basis.
we went over there
we questioned her about what she fed them and, what she did with them during the day and, just how she treated them, her daughter was with the children when her daughter got home from school and ,
stuff like that .
we really seem to be pleased with her.
introduce your daughter to her before you made,
your decision?
she still loves her to death.
E I,
mean, when they see each other, they just love each other to death.
she literally spent almost the entire amount that I paid her on my daughter.
Either making her clothes or,
buying her things.
(( )) .
we're real, real lucky.
aft ,
she stayed with her about, roughly two years,
had to go back to work,
they had some other expenses that came up
she had to go, I guess, get a real job .
Get a real job, full time.
what made you decide to put her in a Montessori school?
I checked a lot of places out, the Kinder Cares and the,
stuff like that.
I live in Garland.
there's this Montessori school that's nearby
it had been recommended by some friends of ours
an older place.
I, checked out all the new places that were near us
I checked that place out
(( )) even though it was older, real comfortable and,
I guess, kind of homey.
they didn't just play all day long.
I noticed a lot of these other schools that I went and they did a lot of play work and stuff.
almost all of them had a Montessori section.
I thought, that must be pretty good, if everybody's trying to incorporate a little bit of it into,
their school.
they made sure they pointed it out,
after I looked at this place, and I took Randi with me, I think just about to every place.
One place I think I didn't take her.
I just kind of let her go, what she felt like doing.
that place,
if somebody came and she liked them and she went outside with them it's hard to drag her away .
I felt more comfortable at,
that place.
the true test.
she was real comfortable.
she has done good.
it's hard to tell how much has been that or how much is just her.
she seems to me to be, pretty quick and smart
she's already reading and writing and stuff,
That's good.
like that.
she just turned five last month.
is good then.
I think so.
I didn't want to rush school at her the whole time,
especially we're going to spend the next eighteen years,
in school .
Exact ,
I wanted,
to quit my job so I could stay home with her the next five months,
because I know she's going to have to face that .
really .
my God. Here we go,
That's right.
I just hate that,
you don't have any children.
Do you have any nieces or nephews (( then )) ?
I have a nephew.
He's a little brat.
He goes to a really crummy day school.
My sister's not real bright,
always sick.
he has always got some kind of,
really? .
cold or something.
I don't know,
I don't think this place is a very good place for him.
Oh .
It's just kind of convenient
she's the kind that goes for convenience over anything else.
Just easy to get them,
there and stu ,
that's a shame.
I don't think she checks things out very well .
really surprises me.
It is scary.
I know.
I would be, too .
I don't know,
that's just it.
that's why I don't mind paying more.
I don't know.
I just feel m ,
Too many horror stories out there that,
that's one reason I like working up there a little bit is,
because I know what's really going on.
That's right.
I think that's an ideal situation.
you don't know,
at her school, as soon as you drive up it's got like a circular type drive .
They sit
they have car callers
some kid goes out and gets the kid
it's time to go .
at first that always kind of bothered me.
not bothered me,
I thought, I'd like to see what she's doing, D you,
know .
now that I'm there, a lot more convenient because there's so many kids that doddle.
when their parents come,
it's hard to get them out,
a lot of parents have places to go and
That's right.
and things like that.
it's late at night,
now it doesn't bother me at all
Is that where the,
over there off of, like,
I'm not sure what the street is,
is it near Country Club,
Sixty six.
That one that's,
set back in the woods?
That's it.
I've seen the signs
I've never actually seen the place itself, D you,
It's set far back,
off the road.
It w ,
that's something I like, too,
a lot of those places are , like, the one over here on seventy eight, Skaggs.
That little Kinder Care, whatever it is?
it's right there on,
which this is on a highway, too.
it's set back,
enough to,
There's a difference.
to death my child might accidentally get out,
if that seems like a real accessible place to where you could,
Ye ,
in and get one.
That's right.
a car accident.
that was one of the places I had checked out.
it was brand new when I checked it out
of course, it was beautiful and,
clean and smelled wonderful in there,
I, that,
I didn't base everything on that.
(( )) .
because that all wears off.
That's right.
That's exactly right.
You get some kids in there
over quick.
I've been real pleased, knock on wood.
I'm scared to death her going to public school.
I don't know,
I, w ,
I do know why because
I would be, too.
everything else
they talk about how soon they start that
that scares me.
I know.
It is scary.
you're just with them,
Do they teach them in school right now where she's at about drugs?
had police officers come in
and talk to them about it.
of course, they still have no concept of,
what in the world drugs are, D you,
what to do when they're faced with it.
I just think of her,
next year she's going to be five, six years old in kindergarten, in same school with, I guess ten year olds.
Isn't that,
sixth grade,
that's a big gap.
It is.
I can honestly see the peer pressure there.
I can,
see it, too.
terrifies me to death. And stuff,
those kids getting snatched
probably a little too over protective
Nothing wrong with that .
nowadays you have to be.
You do.
think there's anything wrong with that.
I at first thought, when I didn't have kids,
I was going, how can you be so protective ? D You,
huh .
it's easy now .
Now you understand .
That's what I'm thinking what your mom and dad always used to say, when you have kids of your own,
you'll understand .
That's exactly right
I do.
are you, are you married ?
Are y'all planning on having kids?
Yeah. We'd like to. *
that's good.
they're really neat.
It's just.
Do you live in Plano or work in Plano, or both?
are you a T I er?
Are you at work right now?
So am I.
are you Summit or are you,
Spring Creek?
I'm Spring Creek.
this is fun.
What building are you in?
I'm building, one.
I'm building two.
At least we found something different .
I've never had a call,
Not like that.
Neither have I.
isn't that funny?
I usually get some place,
I got a woman in New Jersey the last time I called, I think.
That's funny.
That is funny.
The weather in building two is cold
it's been cold.
It's been cold in the building.
Outside the building it's not bad.
listen I got me doing it.
Typical Texas Spring.
Are you a native to Texas?
a transplant.
From California.
what do you think of the Texas weather?
Not as nice as California .
How long have you been here?
five years now.
I've been here long pretty long.
you know about August then.
I've been through five of those .
there's no surprises left.
A lot of people try to leave the state for a couple of weeks in August, for,
if they're going to go out of state for vacation
that's the time to go.
Good idea.
Real good idea.
we went up to Wyoming this last, Summer during that time.
it was like eighty degrees up there.
It was beautiful.
Nice to get out of Texas for a while.
We went to Alaska.
farther away.
That is really nice.
It is so cool, you wear a jacket,
Even in the Summer time,
or keep one handy.
Because rains a lot in Alaska.
Is that right?
they call it their liquid gold.
you get sunshine,
it's lovely,
it rains just enough to keep everything nice
and moist and very green.
And blooming.
my goodness, it's pretty.
Texas isn't bad.
Not in the Spring.
I have to think every year to try to remember to like this time of year.
Spring is nice.
Because March we usually get a lot of rain, in March,
It'll seem the news, the Harold Taft, on the local news.
March we typically get a lot of rain,
we've had this many inches,
we're right on target,
just seem like we were getting a lot of rain in March,
we always
it's hard to remember twelve months ago what it was like.
we always do though.
it wouldn't come all at once .
That's right,
C and
then we get all that heat.
it's just that,
when it rains, it rains.
In California you get these nice, lovely rains, nothing really like you have here.
The other day we had some hail, the biggest hail I've ever seen in Texas.
I live in Garland.
you got into that bad stuff.
We got hail the size of marbles.
just so noisy hitting the house
the glass on the windows.
It didn't break anything,
we went out there afterwards
there's ice balls the size of marbles all over our lawn.
Isn't that strange.
I know, I,
you pick them up,
they're perfectly round.
I go, how did they form, so perfect like that.
I think that's one of the things,
you very seldom see it though.
I've seen hail,
usually the size, of, pebbles.
really small,
this was, really large.
through quite a few rain clouds apparently.
Is that correct?
I don't know how hail is formed
to tell you the truth.
You don't think it's cold enough, to,
It's not on the ground,
must be.
in the clouds it is.
I guess,
I think, all that falling would warm it up and melt it,
maybe that's what rounds it, tumbling.
I was dumb.
I was in, Florida for a week on business.
I had called back to the house.
I stayed the weekend,
I called back to the house.
My housekeeper was baby sitting my cats and dogs, said something to the effect of, now we've made the national news, don't get upset, and don't worry,
it's in Garland where all the bad weather is.
I said, Okay,
I watched the news,
I thought, ha ha, that's Garland, that's not Plano,
I don't have anything to worry about.
I was on the plane heading back to Dallas before it dawned on me, stupid, you own property in Garland .
Felt so dumb.
Finally I got home and found out my property was okay.
There was no problem with it.
I guess you just tend to think where your house is
and nothing else.
close to that, what's called Duck Creek that runs through part of Garland, that's the part that always seems to get hardest hit when the hard rain.
I see.
The creek overflows
around that creek seem get flooded
the streets and stuff around that area,
get a lot of flooding.
that I bought is close to a Firewheel golf course.
Just going to be blocks off of that new highway one ninety that's going through.
That's where I live, close to that.
not quite,
I don't live in that Firewheel division.
I live close by there
Is that a nice area?
in Garland.
they're supposed to,
it's getting built up, with more shopping centers and things.
it's a fairly new area.
they're supposed to be building a mall somewhere close by ninety three or ninety four or something,
a brand new mall
not too far away from that area,
The house that
It'd be nice.
the house that I bought was really, really nice.
in the Firewheel Estates there, whatever.
Really, really nice home, very pretty.
you're not living there right now.
I'm going to lease it.
I see.
investment property.
I see.
nice place.
would cheerfully live there.
Of course it's not my home,
I've lived in my home almost ten years,
I've got everything just exactly like I want it.
if I were to live some place else, it certainly meets my standards.
It's a nice house.
that's a nice area.
Is it on the golf course?
it's not,
it's off the golf course,
I'll be honest with you,
I'm going to have to get a map to figure out exactly where is the golf course versus where my house is.
Is that right.
it's in the estates that adjoin it.
that's a nice area.
it is.
That really is a nice area.
When they get that highway finished, you can hop on that and get anywhere you need to go
that one nine
fairly quick.
that one ninety is just going to be the outermost loop around.
another belt line, just, farther out.
just continue to do that.
Where are you from in California?
Southern California.
San Diego?
I've lived in San Diego for six years when I was younger, and L A area,
my parents live in Anaheim right now.
Lived up north of Los Angeles in Thousand Oaks area, where the Cowboys have their training camp, or used to anyway.
I've been through all of that.
there is an area beyond Thousand Oaks, north of Los Angeles that is really an eerie, strange looking area
(( )) .
with boulders,
I won ,
they're not really hills,
they're more like just huge boulders with very little vegetation.
I'm not familiar with what,
is it along the coast or
or inland.
it may be a little bit more inland.
That is one of the strangest areas I have ever seen.
I had to go up to T I on business
Out there,
a couple years ago
we went up that coastline,
I was just amazed how unusual that looks.
Here, hang on just a second,
I've got a Los Angeles map.
Let me just quick .
they have some pretty nice weather out there in Los Angeles.
(( )) valley.
(( )) valley.
I know where that is.
beyond Thousand Oaks.
I know where (( )) Valley is,
I've been out there before,
You don't think that's strange looking.
I didn't notice anything strange, I guess
about it.
I'm used to Texas.
Maybe Texas the way,
The elevation is extremely high.
It's got curving roads on it,
it's just a strange landscape,
there's very little vegetation.
remember seeing that part of it.
I know (( )) Valley,
it's just a suburb of L A
It's a,
they've built some new highways out to that area, and things, lately.
People can get in and out of L A easier.
Maybe it's a place I went to,
it was far extreme, thought we'd never find the place.
It was interesting.
sounds interesting.
Because we went out the Ventura highway to Thousand Oaks and on up
through that way.
know exactly (( )) that area.
It's a nice area out there.
I love Thousand Oaks.
Texas, I don't know,
you just have less a variety, I guess.
it's quite as green,
It's green with all the trees and things out here
it's just,
it's green sometime.
it's just,
I don't know.
it doesn't stay green,
the really,
in all honesty,
I know this sounds like a Texas story,
all honesty, you haven't seen the hottest of summers if you've only been here five years.
We haven't had a
really bad one,
I missed that one of eighty or eighty two or eighty one
that had the heat wave.
It may be eighty two, because we bought our house in eighty one
we built a pool in eighty two,
Okay .
Okay .
I'm not,
I read a lot,
read a whole,
I, I tend to read only out of a couple, groups.
big baseball fan,
I tend to read a lot of the baseball books
I'm a big baseball fan too.
I read a lot of science fiction.
E ,
I like,
I teach school,
during the school year, I just don't have time to read.
would love be able to read more because enjoy it so much.
with correcting papers two kids of my own, I just don't have time.
in the summer, I try to read a lot.
of course, being a woman, I like romance novels and stuff like that a whole lot.
I just,
I really enjoy that because it's kind of getaway type thing.
read a lot of that.
I also love sports.
don't have time to read in,
I do read SPORTS ILLUSTRATED
during year because my son gets that.
I don't read a lot of nonfiction,
I really should because there's so many self improvement books out right now that benefit me greatly,
I just don't.
huh .
don't really, I should.
I don't really read the self improvement books or things like that.
get books on history and stuff like that that look interesting.
don't ever get around to reading them .
I got,
to Quality Paperback Book Club.
do you?
I'll stuff out of that.
I got BATTLE CRY OF FREEDOM,
a couple of years ago.
I started reading, and got about sixty pages into it
it's like eight hundred pages .
my word.
it was like, I want to read something else for a while .
It's, i ,
some of those books are real tough to get into,
after you get into them, they're really good.
it's just tough to get through that first two hundred pages or so.
BATTLE CRY OF FREEDOM starts off, in the eighteen forties,
wait, the war wasn't until the eightee ,
It's okay,
I realize these things,
These things take awhile to move up,
hard sometimes.
It's right,
that's right.
I find though, that when I find an author,
you don't read a lot of fiction, you said.
when I find,
I read a lot of science fiction.
Do you?
When I find an author I really like, I try to read everything they write.
do the same thing.
Because get used to their style and you really enjoy it.
there's one science fiction writer named, Allen Dean Foster.
I've heard of him.
I must have fifty or sixty books by him .
Is that right?
know that get his book usually going to enjoy it.
it's really,
fun do that.
Isn't it amazing that somebody can write that many books about science fiction?
I think that's unbelievable.
he does a lot of movie adaptations and things like that.
does he really?
his adaptations are usually really good.
Oh .
funny he,
novelization of STAR WARS was list ,
was out stores as being by George Lucas.
it turns out that, Foster actually, ghost wrote it for him.
Is that right?
when I read it, I should have realized that because, it had Foster's style written all over it .
Is that right?
never read anything of his,
I've heard about him.
wouldn't you think he would,
does he get some royalties from that, hopefully?
I'm sure he does .
I would think he would .
I'd hope so.
I mean he's doing all right, probably .
I'm sure he is,
I'm sure he is.
sometimes the more you get the more you want too,
That's true.
a baseball fan,
aware of that kind of thing .
a sports fan, period.
why I like to read SPORTS ILLUSTRATED so much
there's everything in it.
I subscription to that last year,
mostly a baseball fan.
I'm not, as inter ,
the other stuff is interesting
I was mostly interested in the baseball stuff.
you're probably, a Baltimore fan, right, an Oriole fan?
I'm a Red Sox fan more than anything.
Is that right?
that's good too.
I do like the Orioles also.
sure you do.
I'm a Ranger fan simply because I live here.
Yeah .
I'm not from here.
I'm originally from Ohio,
I've always followed the Tigers. Because, I was,
I was born and raised in Toledo.
I was in Toledo last summer.
Went Mud Hens double header .
I love the Mud Hens .
They're great.
I love the name
was a article on the Mud Hens in SPORTS ILLUSTRATED last year.
Y .
I saved that issue,
Did you?
that's when I had the subscription.
(( )) .
it was a lot of fun.
I li ,
I really enjoy that team.
used to go there all the time.
I used to live in Iowa too,
they have the Iowa Oaks.
we used to to their games all the time.
They don't exist anymore,
I don't,
I know,
I know they don't.
At least not by that name.
There's the Iowa Cubs,
I don't know if they play,
they must,
in the same location.
they must have changed then. Because it used,
I haven't lived there for l ,
I've been here for like twelve years now,
I haven't been back to Des Moines in a long time.
we used to always go to their games,
it was kind of fun.
It's almost, more fun than going to a major league game.
I don't know,
I just really enjoy the,
minor league,
farm teams.
baseball, I think is a lot more fun than,
major league baseball.
it is.
It's not quite so serious,
it's a lot cheaper .
That's for sure,
for sure.
there's a city just west called Frederick.
It's about
Is that right?
forty miles west.
they have a minor league team.
I go out there almost as much as the Orioles
Is that right?
it's just a lot of fun.
it's free parking
four bucks now to get in.
the hot dogs are a dollar
it's just great.
much is an Oriole game?
Oriole game?
If you park in the lot across the street from the stadium, it's four bucks.
ticket you can normally get is like six fifty to seven fifty.
it's higher than the Rangers.
hot dogs start at a dollar fifty .
A ,
the food here is outrageous.
you can get a good seat for,
it used to be three dollars.
I think it's gone up to dollars this year.
that's nice.
it's in the bleachers, way out center field,
it's still nice.
You still can see well.
we usually sit there unless somebody gives us tickets, box seats
something, then we usually sit out there.
how much are the box seats there?
Do you know offhand?
Box seats run from, like eight dollars to twelve dollars.
a little steeper.
I think the, most expensive seats in Memorial are eleven bucks.
we're getting a new stadium next year
it'll go up.
it'll go up.
if it opens .
It's, something we're really irritated about around here.
some people are really irritated about.
building this new sta , they built the new stadium downtown.
they're saying how there's going to be a lot more parking for the stadium.
I park for free up Memorial Stadium because I know where I can do it for free .
I'm not going to be able to do that downtown .
a bummer.
baseball here though is the cheapest game in town. Because the Cowboys,
to go to the Cowboy game.
the Mavericks are t ,
it's high too.
baseball's cheap,
Weren't you guys,
compared to other games.
supposed to get a stadium in downtown Dallas?
that didn't go over,
go through.
they decided, George Bush, the main owner of the Rangers, decided that, they'd stay in Arlington.
Arlington's going to build a stadium, a bigger one.
stay there. Which is fine, because Arlington's got a lot of things to offer.
that was their money making,
deal for the city.
it would have devastated them if they would have taken it away.
Because everything,
there's Six Flags right by the stadium, there's a Wet 'n Wild
it, that's,
all the tourists come there.
it would have been devastated,
they would have collapsed.
I'm kind of glad they're staying there. Because it's right in the middle of Fort Worth Dallas,
what I'd always heard,
I like it there.
I think Dallas has enough to offer that they don't have to hog everything .
I'm glad that they're staying in Arlington.
it's takes us maybe, thirty five to forty minutes to get there from Plano, which is not too bad at all.
That's about what it takes me to get to Memorial.
funny that, I live just outside of Baltimore.
it takes me almost the same amount of time to go to Frederick, as it does to go to ballpark
Is that right?
Because, to go out to Frederick, I just jump on the Interstate
I live just south of the Interstate.
on the Interstate,
the stadium's right off the Interstate .
it's like I drive west
I'm there.
to go into Baltimore, fewer miles,
I've got to go, stop and go traffic and everything.
Do you read,
I guess you read SPORTS ILLUSTRATED
you don't read many sports books
not really.
my son does,
a son that just turned sixteen,
he reads everything hands on.
He's reading a Dick Vitelle book right now because he's a real big Dick Vitelle fan.
He's a basketball fan because plays for the high school he goes to
just loves Vitelle, which not many people do.
he's reading it,
he's r ,
he says, He's so interesting, Mom.
You just can't believe all the things he's done.
he's really enjoying that.
he said, Mom, you need to read it after I get finished.
maybe I will.
a really good basketball called, A SEASON ON THE BRINK.
I never heard that one.
I'm not sure.
I don't know.
I'm trying to think of the guy's name.
It was like John Feinstein or something like that
wrote it.
I just heard about it the other night.
I was listening to something on the radio
a talk show about sports books,
mentioned that one.
I'll have to tell my son about that.
I'm sure he'd like it.
I was thinking about,
book kicking around on the history of the A B A, which,
that would be good
the history of sports franchises ,
All right.
do you have any friends that have children?
I do have friends that have children,
what do they say about finding adequate child care?
I think that may be the key word.
I think that's correct.
There, relatively nonexistent what I hear from my friends.
It seems like, even when they have consulted day care centers that are quote unquote reputable, that are sort of like a chain, if I can use that word
still you have to deal with the people that, happen to be operating it locally
it's just a matter trust,
I think they feel that these people are, under qualified basically and underpaid,
I think that sort of goes hand in hand
difficult for them.
we certainly found that to be true.
indeed we've,
our children are now eleven and nine.
we moved away from institutionalized child care
if we can call those chain (( kind of things )) ,
like that. by that name.
And found that, more creative avenues were the right answer for us.
at one point in time we've had au pairs,
by trading services with them,
that worked for a while,
tough to find.
I'm sure that's true.
It takes that mixture of a very mature college student,
who wants to do something and yet is willing to give the time,
and the interest to the children.
I do have a friend that,
she and her roommate became live in care givers
they loved it.
They had stayed with this family from the time these children were small, four or five years old, up until they were well into grade school.
she was paid very well because the parents trusted them
they, had done such a good job.
I can see where someone, in a position like that, in a live in capacity, would definitely be the way to go if lucky enough to have the financial (( )) to be able to do that.
that's true,
that's something that we're struggling with now.
I think it's just a matter of priorities.
a terrible thing to say when your speaking of children in that way,
you still have to be realistic, as well, I think.
(( )) .
Much as other cultures disagree, our lives don't revolve around our children.
that's bad to have to admit, too,
it's just, there's so much pressure when you're talking about two people that work outside the home
I think that is one reason why I continue to be without children.
it's just such a responsibility when I've had friends that have said,
when you hear people say, alters your life forever, please take heed ,
I realize that's true
it's, such a responsibility.
it certainly is.
if I can (( )) the other side of the coin for a moment.
It is such an honor and a thrill,
to be a parent,
that most of the time, it's worth it.
Yeah .
Most of the time .
I just have to be honest about it.
It's not always,
worth it.
There are those times when I think, if I didn't have children I could be out playing (( bridge )) or golf.
it's funny.
a friend that said, before we always said we don't want children because we can't go off on the spur of the moment or this or that and the other
she got older
she said, we never do those things anyway.
am I waiting,
just the way your attitude changes
you mature I suppose.
the thing about the child care have friends that struggle financially they both do have to work.
It's a matter not necessarily, that she might want to stay home or he, as well,
they need the money.
when I seen some of my friends that have taken that six week old baby, to someone else, it's just, I can imagine how emotional it must be. multiplied by the fact that you don't really trust the person or you're uncomfortable with the situation (( )) , as far as child care,
it's just a scary thing.
we were lucky when our children were that age,
having lived in a community for a while we knew the person to whom we were entrusting our children.
(( That's a big plus )) .
felt (( )) ,
feeling of safety.
were leaving them (( )) small children.
we also learned something from that experience as our children got older.
It's that care givers are not omniscient
they are not all things to all people
or all children.
The ones that are good with babies tend not to be good with toddlers.
I think it takes a,
I don't know,
I think your patient level increase as the child gets older .
I think that might be part of the problem with some people.
taking care of a baby, I know, is not an easy thing,
when you have them in, little feet are moving
you have to chase them down constantly.
I'm sure that's a whole new ball game.
I have a nine year old that I would trade happily for a baby (( )) .
you sound like your pretty well passed the worst of it as far as worrying about,
since they're both in school, you don't have to worry about a full time person to take care of them.
you don't know what happens after they get in school.
That's something altogether different,
we have, one takes piano lessons,
somewhere on one afternoon
the other one, of course can't do the same thing.
of course not.
It has to be somewhere else
it's not adequate to sit and wait.
You can't do that.
That just,
that will not do.
That's out of the question,
I'm sure.
Of course.
we are helping,
We are being cooperative,
what's wrong with you?
You don't understand this.
That's just the way their minds work.
it's almost everyday.
That's amazing.
It's amazing that people actually,
the stamina that you must, draw from yourself to deal with it.
It must be interesting.
I guess you find out that you're a much stronger person than you thought, maybe.
I've been finding out that I really am a nice person.
(( )) hit for many years.
(( )) I didn't need it.
now, I need it.
Now it's just a reservoir that you tend to regularly, I'm sure.
it stays low a lot .
are your children now,
do you feel comfortable, with them coming home after school until you and your wife get home
Absolutely not.
(( )) one of them leave unsupervised any time, any place, any where.
the other one I wouldn't leave unsupervised two minutes.
That's just a difference in kids, I suppose.
That's true.
one leads the other?
the one that's going downhill,
the one that more supervision that has a bad influence on the older or more mature one?
Of course.
Yeah .
How unfortunate .
that good prevails.
I'm living in a dream world,
what do I know.
As I said, I don't have kids
I'm an only child
I've never been around children.
I'm sort of at a loss where that's concerned.
I do hear my friends talk about it.
having such fun,
my wife and I were both only children.
we just couldn't wait to have two children so they would be such friends.
Yeah .
That's like World War Three every minute .
I don't know
I have to admit, I was as a child.
I didn't want a brother or sister.
now that I'm older, of course, it's different.
I think about, wouldn't it be nice,
Just make good friends.
I have wonderful friends.
That's true
my best friend is one child of ten.
they just sort of, adopted me as their eleventh child
that worked out pretty well.
She never had to worry about taking anybody to child care because there was always somebody there older to deal with them,
I guess, that's an alternative.
If you could just,
Have enough.
have a whole bunch .
By the time the youngest ones are there, you'll have older one to take care of them.
That's true.
I don't know.
When you see all these horror stories on television about child care
I just,
I was seeing something on the television earlier about a little girl that's been telling her mother these terrible stories
of course people are denying it.
it's just frightening.
It really is.
frightening is a parent to see things you don't really don't understand.
you don't really know what happened.
We gave up on one baby sitter because we came home one night and found pieces of, ribbon,
hair ribbon
tied in a chair. Where obviously she
Do you have any pets now?
I sure do,
I have a cat and a dog named Joey.
dog is Joey?
The cat is,
he's the little boy Pomeranian.
my goodness.
we just got a new addition to the family, so to speak,
we also have a fish.
my .
It's a mud dog.
I beg your pardon.
It's a mud dog.
a cross between a catfish and, I don't know what, a salamander.
did you all catch it,
we have a cat, Stripper.
the mud dog.
did you catch the fish?
we had a friend give it to us.
it's all alone in that aquarium.
we'd like to get him a friend
we haven't found one yet.
how about you,
do you have any pets?
at the present time I have two dogs.
what kind?
An English setter,
that's the white dog with the feathers
it has,
yellow spots on it which they call, I think, liver spots.
that's a male.
I have a wonderful female lab, black lab.
how long have you had them.
Quite a long time, probably five or six years
unfortunately the black lab that's a female, it's, it's the most wonderful animal we've ever had,
an, i ,
when she was about three years old we noticed that she was having limping and so forth
she has hip dysplasia.
it's in that breed.
now I think there are tests that can be conducted, to tell whether or not the puppies
I think,
I don't know,
apparently they've been so I don't know inbred, or what,
is that right?
n ,
I'm not sure that's the situation,
for those dogs that are registered
you should have one, that also has hip dysplasia you cannot breed it,
I had no idea,
I even know that.
she's wonderful.
our dog, Joey, has, a back problem.
ha ,
what are the
got a bad back
he's seven,
I guess he's eight years old.
what are the symptoms?
he just,
he doesn't,
he rolls o ,
he doesn't like to roll over.
e ,
you just,
when you touch him a certain way on the back,
otherwise, he can jump, just as long as he doesn't bend a certain way.
I have had just wonderful luck with this lab,
when i ,
let's see, winter before last we would bring her in, when it was cold.
she wouldn't,
the next morning you want to take them out,
she wouldn't,
I couldn't get her up without her up which it was pretty hard to do at eighty pounds.
I bet.
if I allowed her to not get up on her own, it'd be two o'clock in the afternoon.
I, met my son's, college roommate, is a vet
he said, let's give her some race horse shots.
kind of glad to be able to tell people about this, because you all the time, run into people with problems.
that's when we lived in Oklahoma,
he gave this dog a series of (( )) ,
they give it to race horses, to get rid of, cartilage,
it's called (( )) .
it's a series of six shots, once a week,
I noticed after two shots she was,
Do you have to give those?
I could have,
I can't give a shot.
believe me, I understand.
I took her from Enid, Oklahoma to Oklahoma City every week for six weeks.
after second shot she was significantly better.
Then I didn't notice any improvement till sixth one.
ever since,
he said, a booster, every year or two,
maybe every six months something like that
and when I notice in the winter, when it's worse, it's cold weather and so forth then I have, gotten a booster for her.
not many people in this part of the country know anything about (( )) .
I've had to get it from Oklahoma.
They've heard about it
they've really never used it.
I've never heard anything about it either.
dogs that get down in the hips,
I think German Shepherds do it, and probably large dogs.
it's just wonderful.
Does he get,
is he an inside dog also,
does he just run out in the backyard?
Is he fenced in?
we're living now in an area where we're in the woods
we take walks.
I just don't let them,
go away from me,
we take walks through the woods twice a day.
that's nice.
I can over do it on her.
at least she can go
she's not limping along and all that.
Tell me about your cat.
Stripper, he started out being a little orphan,
took him in
he's about two years old now
he loves his treats,
both, Joey and, Stripper get treats .
let's see,
is, Stripper an inside cat, or outside?
he's outside
he's got a way to get in,
he's got free access of a window we like to keep open.
he gets to go in and out whenever he wants to.
of course.
That's nice,
Joey, on the other hand is a little different.
He has to go out whenever, we ask him
ask him, barks.
He'll either bark for food, or he'll bark to go out
he'll tell you which one he wants.
He's been through obedience school.
he just can,
he has been trained
haven't you.
it is wonderful,
have some neighbors across the field,
when we first moved here, when the dogs and I didn't fe ,
we have a very nice kennel and everything
since didn't want to,
to let them be able to be free for a while.
I kept watch and never let them get away,
every couple weeks, slip away
my neighbor said to me, I noticed those are so well trained,
anytime they hear your voice, they come.
that made me very proud .
yeah .
have we been talking five minutes?
I'm not for sure.
I'm not either,
I think maybe we have,
it sounds like you keep your pets for pleasure.
Have you ever done this before?
I haven't ever called.
I've put in the paper work, I just never made the call.
I didn't know if they stop you when the time is up
they don't,
glanced at the clock when, we started
I think it's been probably about five and a half minutes or something.
one day I was talking to a lady about gardening
love gardening
she did too,
about twelve minutes or something,
the recording came on and said that was the end of the tape .
at least you know you did your part.
it's been so much fun too, talk.
How did you get into this.
my best friend in Virginia's daughter, is a part of this project in Texas.
I see.
she knew that I had the time and enjoy it.
that's true.
I have a hard time getting anybody, because I guess,
do you work.
I do.
probably just got home.
during the day, I me ,
I thi ,
I understand also they want men.
I was going to tell you the same thing.
They're really looking for a lot more men to participate.
my husband does.
Does he.
I need to,
I've got some applications,
I need to hand them out.
this is a great project, that they're working on
it's really going to lead the way, for a lot of applications development in the voice area.
I think so too,
I haven't helped them out particularly,
my husband probably has made a few more calls than I have because I tend to not make them around dinner time,
I try to, make them during the day,
nobody's home.
this is the perfect time for me.
maybe I'll get you next time.
it so much fun to talk to you.
All right,
have a good one.
You too,
I guess if I was having a dinner party might cook brisket or a roast or chicken dish
I guess I usually plan probably a lettuce salad and potato dish,
we usually serve fresh fruit and, then make a dessert.
that sounds good.
that makes,
we're not, real wealthy at the moment.
Last time I had people over for dinner we had lasagna,
I used my mother's recipe,
I really like it.
It's got,
you cook the noodles hamburger and put tomato sauce in with it
I'm not sure she even puts,
must be some Italian spices in there.
I can't remember.
for the cheese part, you mix, sour cream, and cream cheese and cottage cheese
that sounds good.
and, layer all that.
It's good.
That sounds good.
tossed salad
my goodness, Diane, get down from there.
let's see,
what else did I serve with that.
Bread, do you have bread to go with it?
I made French bread with that one too.
I have a recipe that's pretty good for that .
lasagna's always wonderful for large crowds.
a lot of people say, the short cut on the cooking for lasagna,
told me that they go to Sam's and buy a great big pan of lasagna.
I've heard that Sam's has a really good lasagna
in fact I think I had it party once.
Did you?
It was good.
know people that served it
they say, if you have company coming
Easy .
when you don't want to be always in the kitchen, it's easy,
that, always sounds good to me,
I'm in the kitchen cooking a lot.
I know.
seems like I cook a lot of dinners, not always for company, family.
feels like I'm often in the kitchen.
Not my favorite place, but.
a time consuming place.
A necessity .
Let's see,
what else do we like to have for,
trying to think what else I like to serve.
My mother likes to serve taco grandes.
Have you ever had,
I don't know,
what that is.
I don't know what that is.
You take a flour tortilla
you fry it like a taco
for all the inside parts you brown hamburger and put some, tomato sauce in it,
I like to just add picante sauce to get the Mexican flavor
you don't have to mess with spices and stuff.
let's see,
you heat up refried beans,
you cut up tomatoes and lettuce and grated cheese,
what you do to make it, you take the shell and you spread the beans on first,
then you put the meat,
then you put the grated cheese,
then you put,
let's see, what's next,
then, usually put the cut up tomatoes next
and then the, lettuce,
you can put, guacamole and
Katy, I'm on the phone.
get a towel or go change.
I'm on the phone.
a little sour cream is good
chopped olives,
Do you like to make your own guacamole?
don't make it very often, I guess,
I don't very often.
Usually when we get avocados my kids just like to eat them plain
do they?
I just cut slices off
I like an avocado sandwich, too.
that's good,
that's good,
it's always good on top of something in the sandwich.
guacamole that I would take to a pool party across the street the other day,
everyone there said they never made guacamole salad.
. What you want.
do they get it? .
I don't know,
I guess they don't have it at home,
I can't imagine it would stay fresh long enough to,
I guess they just buy it at a restaurant when they eat it at a restaurant maybe.
just said they never had it at home.
was concerned that, as a dip, I thought, sometimes when we have it at home it, it turns dark on the top
so quickly,
I just,
It helps if you leave the pit in it.
does that help?
if you leave the pit in the bowl with the thing, especially while you're waiting before you serve it.
That's supposed to help from turning brown so quick.
I'll have to remember that.
that day I just took extra lemon and just squeezed across the top
it really stayed longer than I
ever thought it would,
that's good.
I thought maybe that was the trick.
That probably helps, too.
I guess we bought a lot of,
we've been buying turkey lately, instead of beef,
Do you want it?
even though,
we have too,
the ground turkey, the meat is softer
Do you want scrambled?
seems to like it.
Sometimes it seems to be cheaper, too,
often buy it
we buy it,
if you get it on sale,
we bought that
we bought filets, and then the chicken, or turkey nuggets,
I don't think anybody in my house knows the difference,
unless you tell them.
I don't think mine know either.
In fact, we've been getting lunch meat that's turkey, too.
It costs less than the other,
I don't know,
there's supposed to be something more healthy about it .
Poultry instead of the beef and
yeah .
I guess that's probably all we need to do for tonight.
can't think of any other specific things I like to serve.
I always like dessert .
One salad that we always like, my sister in law always brings to family dinners, is a,
I don't know what you call it.
you mix, cottage cheese and a package of jello and a thing of, Cool Whip
that's good
that's always good,
and quick and easy,
the only family recipe that make is cheese cake,
we take a recipe from my grandmother,
it's probably fairly typical, cream cheese and egg and sugar, and the insides of a,
this is the season for vacations.
I guess for places I like to go, I enjoy going to the beach and being outdoors somewhere.
Someplace that's very different than Texas.
as the summer heat comes along I would sort of like going somewhere where it's not so hot. And being able to be outside, enjoy activities,
Enjoy going places where,
I enjoy playing tennis,
I like to have a tennis court there,
if it's at the beach, the beach is great.
A pool is great.
(( I )) ,
do you usually go?
let's see,
we have plans this year to drive up to the, to Colorado.
we will be going to Estes Park, and Colorado Springs,
One year we went to the southwest corner of Colorado, into Durango and north of the area there.
boy that's place to visit.
It's really nice at,
there's a train ride that goes up to the city of Silverton where they used to do a lot of silver mining.
of that is another town scale, I guess, than Silverton.
there's lots and lots that are covered with, boulders.
I guess people Jeep through that area
we did not have a chance to do that.
I sure would like to go back there and do that again.
not had a vacation in several years,
be our first chance in awhile,
we are going to go to, Destin, Florida, which is a very nice beach area, if you are not familiar with it.
I have not been,
I have heard it's wonderful.
we used to go quite a bit, before I moved out here.
We were closer and, used to go almost every summer, and, rent a condo there on the beach.
of development condominiums there on the beach front.
large condos.
they have quite a few rooms, will usually rent one for about a week or so.
go down.
beach is nice,
the beach is really nice, isn't it.
beautiful white sand and very clear blue green water, and a,
lot of nice waves usually,
Sea shells.
to make it.
I am sorry.
Sea shells.
there's not as many sea shells along there,
that's the only thing that they really do not,
they have some, but not, not so much.
if you go further down, you will usually find some, but not right in there.
I do not know why it is,
it (( just, ))
to have as many
enjoy it,
at the same place every year,
they are, like I say right on the beach.
where do you stay?
My husband always wants to go to Destin,
we just have not gone that direction yet.
It's a place called Jetty East, J E T T Y E A S T,
it's, called that because it's at the very end of, a jetty there, which is,
sort of at the end of this point
it's at the very end,
it's the last set of condominiums there,
very nice.
it's not very expensive,
you can,
I think we are going to go with another couple and their kids.
I think it's three bedroom or two bedroom, condominium, which will sleep, I do not know, quite a few (( about )) ,
six or eight. cause it's got, pull out couches and all that,
I think it's going to cost us, per couple, about three hundred dollars for the week.
That's nice.
it really is,
it has got its own kitchen, full size,
kitchen and everything.
this one, I think has two baths,
the one we got is beach side.
We have got a beautiful view and balcony,
it's really a nice stay.
in fact, we stayed there on our honeymoon,
had won a trip to the Bahamas, but did not get to take it on our honeymoon time,
we instead went there, and loved it just as much if we had gone to the Bahamas.
in fact, we stayed an extra day or so, because we liked
particular suite we had gotten was very nice
C and,
so we decided to stay.
it's a pretty nice place,
you will need to try to go and,
we have just
stay there sometime.
we have just,
It's a little far from here,
Are you driving?
we are.
We are,
it will take, a day and a half to get there, probably.
we are,
the neighborhood that we live, they are switching to an alternate calendar this year,
at the end of July, we will have two vacation weeks in October and two vacation weeks in March.
that will be an interesting turn on vacations for our family.
that mean, alternate?
what it truly is supposed to mean is nine weeks of school, three weeks of vacation,
nine weeks of school, three weeks of vacation.
the summer would be more like a break.
learning of the children.
I see.
Just the retention of the material for them.
Kind of scattering the vacation the year.
within a year, we will see how that falls .
Florida, maybe in somewhat of an off season, instead of summer.
that's probably all we need to do today.
So long.
Thanks a lot.
Bye bye.
All right
your occupation is teaching?
substitute teacher.
Substitute teacher.
this Pat I'm talking to now?
I'm a substitute teacher, in, I believe, the same school system we both work in.
I was just trying to make an introduction, here .
I haven't told you I'm going to be at a different school this year,
I've just gotten job at an elementary library at Barron.
I bet you may dress differently, then, for that.
not really.
to, read to kindergartners,
I'm going to be down on the floor with them.
I've got about forty kindergartners I'm going to be with every day for, a half hour.
wearing slacks as often as I do because if I'm going to be down on the floor messing with them, I'm not going to wear nylons and,
nice nylons and dresses.
What I wear sometimes depends how cold I think the school might be or what room I might be in
since I'm a sub, and have different rooms to go to. And always carry a sweater.
of course, you've been at Clark enough that you know it's always cold .
you don't know, I guess at some of the other schools you go to unless you've been there.
you try to layer, so you can add
or take off.
interesting to notice when you go to different schools that some are a little more fancier than others and have a very casual,
think some of the dress codes are different at different schools.
That's I ask about, she would allow slacks
she said she doesn't have a problem with that,
she just didn't like sloppy dressing.
I said, that was okay.
basically, slacks year round except about once a week I try to wear a skirt.
in the winter, I maybe wear longer sleeve shirts than I do in the summer. And add a heavier jacket or, wear jackets more in the winter than I do in the summer.
That's about,
really work in a profession that requires that I wear a business suit and, look really,
for me sometimes, they even have dress up days
they, spirit week you wear your different outfits
Yeah .
you have to have the color for that particular school choose to participate in
spirit week.
one might be a hat day where you have to come up with some
you never know that, though
sort of hat.
sometimes when you're going in, do you?
because I sort of stick to several schools, I'm usually aware that there might be a spirit week going on might, might remember to do it.
many schools on a particular day during, I guess football season, maybe all year long, they wear the school colors for, game day
On what,
it might be Thursday for the high schools
it may be Friday for the senior high schools.
that would kind of give you clue, I guess
sometimes you get the long term stuff
you're aware ahead of time
of what's going on.
I don't know,
think about, the dress code they have for the kids,
they put one on the parents, or the teachers and say wear ties
there can be no blue jeans worn
because some of the teachers I know wear, dress up jeans, not sloppy looking jeans
but tapered jeans that they've had dry cleaned so they have got the crease
they'll wear it with a nice top.
I don't know that that looks that bad.
if you're going to tell the kids they have to dress up, I guess you can tell the teachers that, too.
I see that the,
I think the elementary school teachers, or maybe even the middle school teachers dress a little fancier some of the high school teachers, I think.
varies, just so much.
can go.
you can see in some of the departments in some of the schools, like history at Clark, they're all pretty fancy.
they're just sort of into clothes,
there's other departments
that aren't.
they'll just wear your common, ordinary, whatever you might
there's a couple
might say,
teachers up there do dress up more than others.
you try to maybe follow those if you know you're going there,
you don't want to dress too tacky because you're going to be in the same room with them.
you always,
course, it's a standing joke, men come tie and a suit coat, you say, what, have you got a job interview today
you're going
to be observed.
There's usually, there's usually something going on cause that to happen
don't know how a coach would feel that teaches health or or whatever that they had to wear a tie.
some of those male coaches, that might really,
They go around in their little coaching shorts or
a T shirt.
parachute pants.
That I didn't ever understand.
we've got coaches that teach health for five periods and then have athletics sixth period
well at
Vines, the coaches don't do that.
dress pretty good, I would say
they go to their coaching
put their shorts
Change then.
on there.
that's what I would think.
That's what I would think.
don't look, they don't wear their sweat pants anything.
dress like any other teacher would in
in a classroom situation, not in P E.
Course, we one coach, one period he'd teach P E and the next period Health and then a period of P E
Those I can understand.
that's hard.
he just left warm ups on,
I think, really probably, really,
I don't know they make uniforms the thing for the kids,
I guess the teachers will have to follow suit with a dark skirt and a white top
I don't think we'll ever get to that.
You don't think so.
I don't think.
I think we're going the opposite direction.
It's the parochial schools that I guess many ti ,
they've had uniforms for years,
I know if they still do.
some of them, yes they do
it's not
It certainly makes it easier to dress.
at some of the private schools,
even there's a couple public schools in Dallas the kids wear uniforms and the teachers, dress
in accordance with that.
it's certainly cheaper and easier in the long run, I think, that you don't have to be concerned about your wardrobe.
think it would make a difference at school.
don't think we should be spending time saying somebody's wearing torn clothing or wearing shorts, too short
they've got the really short skirt the black nylons the high,
it's a lot of trouble take care of that.
of course, the kids say, then why bother, just let me wear what I want.
yet we can't to that either.
I'd like to see them go not necessarily a uniform, but saying that they've got to wear a button down shirt.
alleviate any T shirts with sayings on them.
if they could wear a button down shirt and a pair of dark slacks and they could buy them anywhere they wanted
I doubt that that would come ab ,
the girls,
that that will come about.
Just ,
I don't,
not in Plano.
They may get a ,
they said in the Dallas schools that that helps their educational process there.
I think it does.
takes their minds off trying to compete.
Highland Park's thinking about going that route.
then I think that's going to push teachers to dress a lot more professionally than they do.
don't think a lot of teachers are very professional
I agree with you on,
good morning.
Good morning.
Do you have recycling in Sachse?
we do.
got, a pickup twice a week that they come out
they have their own special bin that they hand it out to everybody
they take it.
it's twice a week?
We have,
recently started, a bin program here in Plano where,
used to be put all of our trash in green bags and the trash men came out twice a week and picked up.
now they have, these large green containers
you have to put your trash that you don't recycle in there.
they haven't started curbside recycling yet,
planning on doing it very soon.
Apparently the trucks that they had, lined up, they needed the parts for,
Saudi Arabia .
that put off the program for a while.
do you recycle?
my kids do .
Do they?
Put it that way.
they've been recycling cans
for extra money.
been their summer money
they're fixing to go to Disneyland.
that's great.
that's the way we started too.
My daughter was going,
to Camp Goddard, which is through the Plano school system, in the fall
couple of years ago
she had to earn money for it
she was too young to baby sit.
that's how she started.
She started recycling cans
from there we now recycle glass and newspapers and, aluminum cans and plastics.
huh .
that the same way as with the aluminum cans where you go
weigh it or whatever
(( )) the only thing we get paid for are the aluminum cans.
the rest of it we just do because my husband has become hooked on recycling.
we don't get paid for that
that's okay.
not that much of a bother really.
You just have to rinse out your bottles or whatever
we use a lot of,
two liter bottles. and milk cartons and things like that.
It's amazing how much plastic you generate.
I was amazed at how many cans
that we got (( ))
when the kids first went down, I said, great
I was thinking, maybe I'd help supplement it,
when they turned them in
it's amazing how many cans you go through.
it really is.
And how fast they accumulate.
all that stuff
we have reduced our waste.
that generating a week.
I know our neighbors, when we first went to this bin program said, there's no way, we're going to have to have pickup twice a week.
They were real upset
only picking up once a week.
we said to them, if you recycle, (( )) go two weeks without having to put out the green container.
really amazing.
The other thing he does, that my husband a real stickler about is we don't collect our grass clippings.
got a little mulcher thing.
It's just a little attachment for the lawn mower
we mow once a week.
more often then that.
the clippings just get mulched up and then just lay on, lawn.
it's amazing,
it's amazing.
We don't collect any of that
has cut down a lot in what we throw out.
(( )) catch it either, mainly because my husband rarely has time to mow the yard.
if it I do it normally.
I can't mow the yard with the grass catch on it.
It's too heavy.
it and leave it.
It just soaks in.
Sure it does.
Sure it does.
It really does
they say that you're wasting fertilizer
if you're not, catching your grass clippings.
that much fertilizer you have to use because it does fertilize the lawn.
It's amazing.
I like it better doing it.
it cuts down on my mow time anyway
that's true.
you zip through it quicker.
That's true.
That's true.
really think you're going to get hooked on plastics and paper before you know it.
really not that much trouble.
We keep a large plastic, garbage bag in the garage.
as soon as we use something, we crush it up and put it out there
every few weeks we have center near Wal Mart.
have the containers that you can just go over there and drop it in
it's really no trouble.
I feel like at least we're doing something.
(( )) , I read a magazine article
they said something about how you don't realize even just your small contribution, it seems like a small contribution
it's not.
If everyone were to recycle just their newspapers, they would thousands and thousands of trees a day.
A day, just from not throwing out your newspapers.
when you read that you think, maybe it is a big deal,
makes me sick when they show the dump sites
huh .
how big they are.
like in New York, the barges that
that go up and down river
they don't have any place to put it
it just floats in the (( )) ,
it's ugh.
really not necessary.
It really isn't
if everybody would do just a little bit it would make a big difference.
It would make a huge impact.
I'm excited about the recycling program in Plano .
can't wait for them to get it started.
because it'll be that much easier for us,
like I said, now we have to take it over Wal Mart.
It would be real nice if they just came by and just picked up.
it's convenient out here for them to do it.
do they pick up?
It's just,
They pick up plastic, the glass, and the newspaper.
they do?
do you have to sort that?
they will do the alum ,
do you just put it all in.
you just put it in the one bin
I guess they do the sorting.
they'll do the aluminum cans too
we don't give them those .
The kids keep those .
you're doing that now?
You're doing the newspapers and the glass?
take the newspaper to begin with. When, neither one of us are home t ,
to read it.
we don't have the newspapers but plastic and the glass .
At first, when it first started, it was hard.
because you're just used to throwing things.
My husband would,
come home and go through the trash
and say, you threw this away .
all upset
I'd say,
it's just such an automatic reaction.
It is.
we think before we throw anything away.
it's really funny.
once you get into the habit of it, it's okay,
making it a habit that's hard .
I know.
the kids have even got to the point where see anybody going in the trash can with a can, no, don't do that
they go to the sink, they rinse them out, and they put them upside down, they let them drain
after a couple of days they take them all outside
I put them in a big bag anyway
they dump the bag out
they crush them.
their activity thing. To go out there and crush.
That's fun.
that's a lot of fun.
That's a lot of fun.
that's great.
I'm to hear you're,
doing that.
my sister was here recently from Connecticut
they have a deposit on all their bottles and cans.
really? .
Where do you live?
In Plano.
In Plano?
Where do you live?
In Dallas.
okay .
the air pollution isn't too bad in our area.
we're very fortunate
Huh .
I know in some areas, it really is bad.
I was trying to think,
something we were watching the other day
they were doing an overview of Los Angeles, from an area that was up higher
you literally could see the band of smog.
I've never been out there,
I haven't either.
quite evident that,
it was a real brown area
I think it would be terrible to live in an area like that
unfortunately, I think there are a lot of areas that are, bad.
Particularly in the areas where there are industries, where they are burning a lot of coal,
and oil
Yeah .
north, I guess,
I think it's a bigger problem. With the car pollution, anti pollution devices,
I think, air isn't as bad it once was, from the cars, because we certainly have plenty of cars in our area.
I know, that's been the concern in Europe.
They hadn't,
we have friends in Germany and, have family that live near the Black Forest area
large areas of the forest are being hurt from the cars because when we, to the unleaded gas had the emission control required on the cars,
that's something that Europe didn't do right away
now they're doing that
I guess it started in the last few years because they have found that in that particular part of the country, that's the only pollution that's been there.
It's not an area that is industry
they were losing a lot of, trees and a lot of,
From acid rain?
I guess. something that the car giving,
I think gases which combine up in the atmosphere, and form weak acid.
It just makes the rain fall on the acid side
after a period of time, I think that accumulates in, trees because they take it up through their roots, as well as it landing on the leaves, on surfaces,
you've seen what it's done to buildings even
where it's really bad.
What's interesting, several years ago, I took a course, on,
put on by the power companies about the various sources of energy and how much pollution there was,
there wasn't from various kinds energy.
at that point in time, one person that was a speaker brought up the topic of acid rain
it was kind of pooh poohed,
you're making a mountain out of a molehill, kind of thing.
it's turned out that, that's been very true, what he was forecasting about the accumulation the pollutants in the air and the acid rain and what it would do to foliage.
it's kind of interesting the change in perspective from when I took that course.
Now, a lot of people are really afraid of nuclear.
I'm not afraid of nuclear, having had that course because of how the nuclear that, they use is not bomb quality,
we're so strict with all our controls in the United States. The chances an accident are slight,
it doesn't pollute the air at all.
It's safer to be around a nuclear plant then it is to be around a coal plant.
Many more deaths have occurred in and dealing with coal plants then ever around nuclear plants.
It's kind of funny because people are just petrified, at least some are, at the thought of nuclear.
I don't know.
In Europe there's a lot of dependency on nuclear power
they recycle the fuel
some people are really afraid to recycle the fuel because they're afraid it could become, bomb quality.
that's the only sensible thing to do, is recycle and reuse the fuel and not store it down in the ground. As far as I'm concerned, where it could eventually, perhaps, there's some problem, pollute the groundwater.
I don't know what the answer is.
The best answer, of course, would be solar or, fusion, or something clean .
we've got a problem on the line, don't we.
get that sometimes,
my line gets some static.
I don't know why.
solar, of course, would be
I know it's (( )) ,
we did have a solar water heater when we lived in Houston
oddly enough I thought our part of the country was ideal.
I can't hear you at all for all this static.
I don't know what to,
usually it's the other phone I have trouble with.
It must just,
be on the line.
Can you hear me?
Now I can again.
don't know what the problem is
when we lived in Houston we had a solar water heater
we had thought this part of the country would be ideal for solar homes and solar energy
we have enough clouds that, there are other areas that would be better suited.
That surprised me because I think,
we have a tremendous amount of, sunny days.
it can be used
it can help
that was a problem that they were still working on.
still got a long way to go.
It's just, a possible solution
in the future, I think, maybe to help in some ways.
It may not in all ways.
Maybe they'll come up with fusion. it.
I don't know how long that'll take,
one of these days,
that's perfectly clean.
It's just we can't control it.
Right now it takes more energy to cause fusion to occur then you get out,
it isn't, not at all,
you can't control it unless you gotten a huge electromagnetic field,
that's not going to work. At least not now.
who knows what the future will hold. as far as energy goes,
think, with solving some of the problems, we'll probably solve some of the pollution problems as well.
I hope so .
I do to.
I like to be optimistic,
I don't like to be pessimistic about these things.
I do think,
you've already mentioned several things, I think, just the change in attitude and the fact that more people are aware there is a problem and more people are interested in,
We have one earth,
Yes .
to live on
we got to take care of it.
for the future generations, too.
I've noticed much more, people are much more receptive to ideas about the environment
and protecting the earth.
if we can raise generations with those concerns, we'll solve a lot of our problems.
I'm afraid,
I know I was part of the me generation where people didn't care.
it's whatever,
recycle, if it's a problem, forget that.
not throw the trash out the car window
leave it in the car and then throw it away?
How horrible,
I've always done those kinds of things because I just didn't like messes,
how do you feel about capital punishment?
I am pretty much against it .
How about you?
I'm pretty much for it.
we can have a debate.
We'll have some interesting discussion, I guess.
I don't know,
I think that I,
one of the reasons that I'm against it is that, I'm afraid of someone losing their life, for wrongly,
another reason,
have been kind of ambivalent about it, one of the arguments that really,
made me feel kind of strongly against it, is that, someone said to me once, imagine if the person you love most in the world, like your mother or something, if someone killed her, wouldn't you want to see them killed for the punishment?
I thought about it
I thought, the loss that I would feel at losing my mother
it would never be equal,
someone else would feel that about that person
no matter how rotten they were, somebody loves them .
How about you?
guess I can see it from several different perspectives,
when I hear about things like, been reporting about in Milwaukee, to me I don't see any way of rehabilitating the guy.
maybe there is, I don't know.
that's true.
he's never going to be, to me, a functioning part of society.
He's already been paroled, whatever, for child molestation.
I don't know,
have a hard time with that because he really sounds like a real sicko.
for the things he's done,
I don't know,
I guess it's put him in jail for the rest of his life, capital punishment I guess.
an and
that's true, because a lot of these conversations I've had on this program this
these telephone conversations have revolved around criminal
most of the time I hear myself saying
we don't have enough room left in the jails
people crime is still climbing
we need to have different punishments
I just am scared of capital punishment,
I guess.
I can underst
you know there there is always that chance
I guess to some people it'd almost be better to die to them than to spend life in prison or whatever
that would be a situation where if somebody you know was gonna be,
you really throw a lot on the courts, hopefully that they won't do that situation really.
when find somebody just like that situation, it was disgusting when I read about it today.
when you find someone like that, that you know is guilty, he confessed already to killing eleven
I guess I have a hard time feeling merciful toward him,
Especially when it's so far removed.
If it's no one that I know
then you have to think about the taxpayers paying
the shelter and feed and clothe
them for the rest of their life.
trying to rehabilitate him, too,
Letting him out again .
nobody wants that.
everybody would be just as scared to death,
had a real problem here in Texas with, prison overcrowding
they've been releasing people left and right
they've committed murders and rapes and everything else,
you just think, where's the justice here.
they're not even having to serve out what they should be serving.
That's true.
I just recently moved to Massachusetts.
I'm not sure what their policy is on capital punishment
that was one of the questions
I do know that they are notorious for paroling people.
having them reconvicted for
violent crimes.
I guess, they said, do you think it should be restricted?
I guess, if,
because a lot of states do still practice capital punishment
I guess violent crimes would be the crimes where I can see it making the most sense.
violent crimes malicious intent.
that's exactly, not saying think is the perfect solution in every case, especially because there are some cases when you just don't know
think there's shadow of a doubt, like with guy in, in Milwaukee.
he pretty much confessed to it.
just everything, cannibalism and everything else,
I really would have a hard time, especially if I was on a jury, not wanting him to, be executed.
Hang? .
Because, that's just awful.
what is he going to do prison to the other people ?
that, the other prisoners aren't going to be too happy with him anyway. Either,
I don't know,
what I hear about jail life is not any way to live.
I don't know. It's just,
on a human interest story, or whatever today, there was a woman who was just being paroled and trying to make it back,
was off drugs and everything,
she said, in prison you can get anything.
You can any drugs you want.
just like being outside.
find ways around.
there's a power structure that you have bow to
who have been there for over, and over, and over, it really isn't, as bad.
it's not that bad of a life as it should be
for the punishment aspect.
the society is turned against punishment and more towards rehabilitation
maybe that's crime has gone up, because it's not so scary anymore.
especially like repeat offenders.
just appalls me that a ten year sentence and be out in, in two, or three, or four years.
scary because, I'm not sure, I think we're paroling them without even knowing if they're, going to be committing any more violent acts or not.
what they're going to be doing when they
get out .
it's really scary .
I me ,
don't know what the perfect solution to that is
I know that especially with violent crimes where, you're nearly a hundred percent convinced that they're guilty and without much repentance or anything else, then, I don't know, guess, just really don't see much use for this guy in Milwaukee,
For instance, that's just,
I could see capital punishment in a case like that. And, other people, too, that do things, like that.
my wife and I are both participating in this survey
she picked up the phone
when she heard the topic, she said, capital punishment,
she was,
Handed it to you?
luckily it was for me. Because they coordinate the times so it can,
only be one or the other.
I see.
she tried to enter her number
it wouldn't work
she said, whew, it's for you.
I don't know,
struggle with it,
really think that terms of this, think that might not be such a bad thing. Because, I don't know that anybody would feel good, if you let someone like that loose in your community.
I'm su ,
you'd have to be scared to death .
maybe if they could,
if they had more money or resources to work more on rehabilitation,
deep down I think human ,
do you subscribe to magazines yourself?
I don't, subscribe to any magazines at home, because we get so many at work that, I need to read that, I just don't take any at home.
I see.
I get, MCCALL'S.
Of course, anything that appeals to the homemaker since that's my main line of interest.
once in a while I'll pick up a WORKING WOMAN or something and
realize why I don't want to go back to work .
What I enjoy about staying home.
I read magazines mainly because they're fast
if I want to relax while I watch T V,
of course, I'm one of those that does two things at once,
I read GOOD HOUSEKEEPING and BETTER HOMES and MCCALL'S.
I like them because they're kind of short and to the subject.
to take MCCALL'S and GOOD HOUSEKEEPING and, several magazines like that a few years ago at home.
you stopped them all.
the subscriptions ran out
I never renewed them.
I found that I really didn't have time at home since I work, to read them.
I find that, about two years is probably my max
on subscribing to one in particular
I kind of get turned off by it.
Other than GOOD HOUSEKEEPING.
GOOD HOUSEKEEPING is the one that kind of sets around for I'm really have time and I really want to read something,
I don't get into books too often because I have so many things that I stay occupied with
on a general basis,
we travel a lot
I enjoy reading parts on travel in the various
different ones.
I get into, newspapers,
I guess that kind of tells you what kind of person I am.
I'm, it fast and put it down .
I had my magazines at home, I would find that I kind of skimmed through them and looked at the pictures,
if something caught my eye, then I might read something,
otherwise than that, they were, not too useful to me.
I got some good recipes from them sometimes,
That's what I do.
You clip recipes
you save them forever
you never really
use them.
That's right,
that's right.
every so often you weed through them
you think, where did I ever put that recipe.
that's mainly my, whole idea on
short subject, reading and things like this.
subscribe, like I said, to a few
once in a while I buy that new magazine called FIRST on the newsstands
or something like that.
I kind of stay with my own subject matter what, pertains to my daily life
at the present time.
since I work with computers during my work, I have to keep up on all the new computer equipment and software and everything.
I have to read the magazines, such as BYTE, and COMPUTER WORLD and MAC WORLD and all of these, , magazines such as that,
I really, just,
I can see that it will be a very long time, probably, before I subscribe to any magazines at home.
sometimes, you're
I know that people will read them on something like that.
I think,
the idea is good,
I can just dump them at the other end ,
I don't have to carry them back with me.
That's right.
I do that when we travel.
I always have my head with a magazine somewhere as we
drive or wherever we,
no matter what it is, air travel or anything and I,
go on an airplane ride or something, I'll stop in and pick up COSMOPOLITAN or something
to read on the airplane.
that's basically just about ,
I'll buy a crossword puzzle magazine every now and then .
That's when you really have time.
your computer ones,
I got into computer work somewhat,
we have our own computer system at home
I tried, reading the magazines hoping I would get more from it
it was just above my head without having someone there to give me the advice as I went along.
It was, kind of a little bit more than what I needed,
I never did get into them.
bought the computer, all of a sudden I was receiving them, for some unknown reason, through the mail.
I think they all thought, we have a live one . She'll subscribe .
they were wrong.
I never got into them.
I guess we might as well end our conversation at this point.
It was nice talking with you.
It was nice to talk with you, too.
Thank you.
Bye bye.
Do you have any hobbies?
I do.
What are yours?
China painting and ceramics.
how great.
I enjoy it.
huh .
ceramic painting.
I enjoy the china more.
The china more.
now that I have my eyes, corrected to the point that I can see the delicate part of china painting, I do enjoy it.
How did you ever get into that?
That sounds so interesting.
My husband kept begging me,
he's been dead now for twenty years,
you understand that this was a long time ago.
he finally brought me the china, the book, the brushes and he said I have made arrangements for your lessons.
How marvel ,
I said I'll do it for three months
if I don't like it, that's it.
I painted an awful lot until his death, which was several years.
it has just been the most relaxing, enjoyable , self satisfying thing I've had.
do you do it just for yourself,
do you do it to give as gifts,
do you actually sell it?
I have sold quite a bit.
I give a lot to our two daughters that are grown and have their home ,
I just have the rest of my house with lot of hand painting in it.
that sounds mar ,
do you work outside of the home?
I have just retired.
You've just retired.
what a great
it's not,
hobby .
It's a great hobby,
don't retire .
Don't retire.
I don't,
I never, returned to work for the p ,
I have stayed home for about the last nine years.
We've transferred around,
our last area was in a rural section right on the lake, on Lake Erie.
the lake life appealed to me,
my husband's working
he left it up to me if I worked or not.
in my spare time, I love to sew.
There aren't too many people around anymore that really enjoy sewing,
I do make all my own clothes
we recently purchased a new home,
I enjoy doing my, toppers for my window applications
and things like that.
just when I thought I really enjoyed my hobby, yours sounds great .
my sister is the seamstress of the two of us.
she doesn't china paint
we both have our expertise side.
That is excellent.
What part of Ohio are you in?
of Cleveland
I'm about, fifteen miles, probably, from downtown Cleveland, something like that.
Cleveland is located right on Lake Erie
prior to this, we were fifty miles west from here.
we were right on the lake.
Cleveland isn't all as bad as what you've heard .
what's that,
you do find people, into the crafts and for spare time,
I have never heard and I have actually never run into anyone into the china painting
I'm just intrigued with it.
If you ever start, be sure and start with
that way you can get the feel of,
you're not cramped on these smaller objects.
where you're getting into the delicate work.
That's right.
first get your lessons from?
In Abilene, Texas.
Through adult ed, or strictly a china type,
She just taught china painting.
how marvelous.
we had so much fun there,
I had a friend from Albany, which is about thirty six miles away,
we would meet every Thursday morning at our instructor's home, because she did our firing for us,
she would help us
we bought lots of equipment from her, supplies
it was just such a delightful time.
after I,
it's so nice,
Beg pardon?
It must be so nice for you, now that you're retired.
I have been a little bit negligent about it because I was so tired when I had to go to work after my husband's death.
I have put it aside for a little while,
have just found me an instructor to get started again,
isn't that great.
you'll probably really, your enthusiasm for it
once you get into class again.
Of course, I just have one beautiful umbrella stand,
I have two daughters
they're both,
your practice as far as budgeting?
Do you manage the money?
talk about it,
I'm usually the one that sits down and puts the pencil to the paper tries to somehow make the ends meet, which,
I see.
That's how kind of I am, too.
Are you married?
You are.
I think the women for the most part end up managing the money.
My husband always says he earns it, and I have to spend only what he earns .
I don't mind the spending,
it's just that get what you need what you have.
That seems to be our challenge.
I don't work outside of the home,
he always threatens that when I spend more than,
what's coming in, I have to go back to work
I see.
manage it .
at home also,
it does get rather interesting trying to survive on one salary,
do you actually follow a budget?
we pretty well do.
several years we didn't,
we found that we just weren't making the most of what we had,
set aside a certain amount each week that goes for things that have to be paid for,
just our bills.
what's left we divvy up.
We try to save a little bit, although we're not always successful,
the rest of it just goes for normal weekly needs.
that's pretty much the way in the past,
I would say.
at this point our children are grown,
I really don't have the obligations there any more
that we have to balance to
get things together for them,
I really just keep very good records,
most of our expenses are fairly the same every month with the exception of utilities and things like that,
I try to keep my MasterCards and things paid currently
I don't always succeed at that.
I usually keep one with a low interest rate,
I put things on there that I think I'm not going to get to
I have another one,
for the most part, our mortgage and our utilities at this point, they take a pretty big chunk compared to what they used to
I'm still getting used to that,
we make sure that we just do not buy unless we really can see how we're going to pay for it ahead
we do not buy us, new cars.
do you get into car,
we had new cars, always until about four years ago,
my husband, owned his own company and it went under,
we could no longer afford that monthly payment,
now it just seems just such a large amount of money to spend we do have a used car,
he has a company car also,
for our personal car we have a used car.
do you think that it's wiser to buy used?
We do for us very much so.
In fact, we are in a position that most of our friends we just don't go to a new car, whatever,
I said
look, you guys are all into car payments,
we haven't had car payments for so many years,
I love it this way,
recently we just created the laugh among everyone because we had a car that we really liked
it has eighty two thousand miles on it
we kept saying, wouldn't it be great if we could find another one just like it.
Believe it or not, we did, we found one, one newer
the worst part is, it's the same color
everybody's saying, you're kidding,
you have two cars the same,
I said, you know how when you have a bad one, you say, never again
That's right .
I said, we had one, and we found one with just seventeen thousand miles on it
it's an eighty five,
I said, Hey, this was a cinch,
we paid for the car,
we still know now that we have this car to put all the miles on.
This is for all the long running back and forth on, interstate driving and things,
we intend to replace our other one with a much newer car in the next couple of years, or next year probably.
Do you, buy from dealers or from individuals?
Generally from dealers,
it depends, because I don't like to sell what we're trading in to an individual
unless have done that when we had a really good one that we wanted to sell
we were going up to a larger one,
we have found that by trading in and going through a dealer, we always make a deal.
I mean, we have walked out of more dealerships saying, don't bring us the manager, and all of that unless you want to bring him right away.
You're going to get one shot at us
we will,
they say, you're kidding,
I s ,
this is the price we're going to give you out the door.
We don't want to hear about taxes,
I guess our topic is, advice about going to college.
Do you have children of your own?
I don't have any children,
I'm still going to college.
are you?
What school are you going to?
N C State.
Are you enjoying it?
it's a lot of work .
Are you working on your,
My Bachelor's.
Bachelor's degree?
what field of study are you in?
it's actually in computer science
I have a special interest in Voice I O.
that's neat.
Are you from North Carolina?
I'm actually from Amarillo, Texas, originally.
are you really?
what took you to North Carolina?
the service.
I see.
that was one of the things I was thinking about in school,
I went to Texas Tech out in Lubbock
I had a friend, my roommate went to Tech also,
she was from New Mexico
she had to pay out of state tuition
I think that would have, played a real big part of my decision
It would have played a major part in mine.
because, she was pay ,
of course back then it was so much cheaper than it is now.
It was like four dollars a semester hour
I was going to school for, just a few hundred dollars a semester,
she was paying forty dollars an hour
she paid ten times as much because she was out of state.
luckily I've paid in state tuition the whole time.
that's good.
I think that would be one thing I would definitely consider
try to find a school within the state that, I liked well enough to attend.
The second thing is some colleges only offer the, liberal arts
whereas like State, they offer engineering courses
depending on what your major is, or medical, you might want to like Tech
aside from the,
some schools may even give you financial aid, where another one won't.
that's true,
that was something else I had, was, I had government aid, of course,
it was wonderful, because I got one of those grants that you don't have to repay
it was so nice
it paid most of my tuition, and, a lot of the book costs and that kind of thing
Wow, that's great.
I really,
Was it a Pell grant?
I'm sorry, what did you say?
What kind of grant was it?
it was called a B E O G, a Basic Equal Opportunity Grant
it was from the government,
on my parents' income.
My parents had five children and really didn't make enough money to send any of us to school.
because based on the number of children and the amount of money, my father brought in, I got a small grant
then after that, I was on my own, working and, trying to go to school on my own.
I got a real big grant, because the
amount of money I was making really didn't compare .
it was kind of nice.
I don't know if those are still available or not,
I'm not quite,
a lot of different organizations do give grants,
I'm not exactly sure which ones they are and how much, generally run.
this was great,
it was just based on, how much your tuition costs and everything,
generally it paid everything,
I went to school about three years of my four for almost nothing,
that was,
that's great.
it was really nice.
another thing.
degree from another college
something that might play a part is the size of the college.
(( )) the smaller schools can give you more specialized instruction
and attention than the larger schools
in the larger schools you get caught up in the bureaucracy,
they just give you a teacher's assistants,
instead of a scholar you get a T A
That's right.
you don't get near the, quality of education ,
as well, the, smaller schools often times don't cost as much.
I didn't know that.
I guess the only comparison I had ever heard was between Christian college, because I thought about attending Abilene Christian
instead of Texas Tech
of course the price was just astronomical compared to Tech
the Christian college was so much more expensive.
I guess some of the other smaller colleges be a lot different.
. think it's just a waste of somebody's money to go there
it's really a shame because of, the instruction
I'd rather go to any other college, in the state,
I would definitely get my money's worth, much better than State.
It's kind of unfortunate, because just grown so big that they just don't care about the students any more.
you're just a number.
bent on, seeing they can get, and of the campus they can build up
it's really a bad situation here.
that's a shame.
felt a little cheated at Tech, also.
Once I got into my,
I, majored in,
do you feel is major change that's been going on?
That's a tough question.
We are now able to work full eight hours a day and still do our housework. Right .
Don't ask me.
I think that has been the major change, is that, women feel they need to go out and do this,
no longer feel no big deal stay home and raise your family
any more.
it has no credibility any more.
I know it,
I think that's really sad, because I think there's going to be a generation of kids that are going to grow up raised by somebody else.
I'm a school teacher,
I'm in charge of raising them,
I can appreciate it.
You don't, ,
still home my last one,
I wouldn't a minute of it for anything .
good for you,
good for you.
I can't help but think that eventually the pendulum's going to swing back the other way again.
it's interesting, because when I heard the topic, I was thinking,
this summer Oprah had a T V show
about wives that refused to go to work, and how their husbands thought they were terrible,
one woman had four children,
her husband said she wasn't pulling her own weight in the family
that's frightening
was almost from the audience participation it was almost a social issue,
people were siding with the husband, saying, You've got to go to work, if you have these four children, you've got to support them,
nobody would give her credit for being
home and raising them.
think too many people feel they need to live a more extravagant life style than necessary
That's true.
don't think, the kids don't benefit from the bigger house and the fancier cars, and this type of thing.
I think that they would from the, attention or whatever
That's true.
I don't know,
see it as a major problem
I think it's going to have to swing back the other way, because I think we're going to have an awful lot of kids who are going to have major problems from all this.
said, I teach school
I'm trying to think,
I don't know,
I have that I know is home,
she also has ten children.
grade do you teach?
Six, seven and eight.
Six, seven and eight.
I've got a chi ,
where do you live?
Are you out,
In Richardson.
In Richardson,
we're in Plano here.
I have a daughter in middle school,
I know there aren't very many,
she has a few friends that have moms who are still at home,
do you ever see problems, that you feel
that the kids are left alone too much,
I've got one child, that stays with me every day until five, because his mother doesn't come home until seven,
he doesn't want to be home from three thirty until seven by himself.
He stays at school?
the school allows that?
he stays with me
I have a tendency to work late.
I work until six
he stays with me until five thirty and then goes home
I have lots of kids, because they know I'm there late
I'm a slow mover to say the least,
they'll come in and say, Can I stay with you because I don't want to go home to an empty house.
that's frightening, because, the,
when I said I'm raising them, I am,
because we're talking about boy friends
we're talking about what the girl said in class,
what's right
because there's no mother at home
No mother to talk to.
it makes a difference,
just the social values,
I've just,
feel it will swing back the other way,
do you feel there's just going to be a big push
don't know.
and more day care type situations?
have a feeling we're going to go more and more,
I've got a twenty one year old female,
I've got twenty two year old male children,
I listen to my daughter,
she's going to work,
she's going to buy her house,
she's going to get her car,
she's going to have her children,
when, they go on one salary, will they be able to sustain what
their life style is.
they're back to work,
I agree with you,
I was raised in a generation we didn't need all those things
we lived without them,
we did fine,
I've got a,
I have a real good method of starting to get the budget balancing
that's get payroll.
I think that would probably, be very possible,
we really wouldn't feel it in our services .
Not all,
don't know if you've ever been to Washington D C.
I have.
seen that which was on there and the offices
in light of these, hearings we've all been sitting through the last two weeks, we have very definitely decided that every department there is just overstaffed.
They really don't have enough to keep them busy to keep their noses in their own business of what they're doing.
the other thing is, besides that I think, two things that very definitely need looking at, one is foreign aid.
I have a real problem with all the foreign aid that is going to the countries that really have no use for us.
I find that a total waste and part of the defense budget.
again being just a voter and a taxpayer, working through our congressman, I don't think there's too much that I'm going to be able to do about it,
I believe in taking an active part in politics,
thing that really bothers me cutting what they spend is that just really aggravates me when the big businesses do not end up paying taxes
the, regular normal taxpayers are,
paying such a large proportion our personal income
the, corporate, industries just don't seem to not pay proportionally.
I think that that help a lot.
I guess in a way it would trickle down to us in the prices of things,
I don't know. It's just take and, see so much of our paycheck go out and then realize that they have all the loopholes that they can use.
seems like some rather large chunks of money could come that direction.
seem to,
I really think the biggest problem
the (( Taft Rudman )) Act is supposed to help that.
The biggest part is they have no accountability for what they're doing.
this nonsense that's coming through now about, lowering payments on Social Security and a few other things that Bush has in mind in order boost the economy because people have more money as it's ridiculous.
If they don't have that money now, bringing in less is not going to help the problem
going to help.
as far as the government.
It's helped personal situation .
I can't say it would help with theirs either .
thank God we don't operate our budget,
the way they operate theirs or we'd all be dire trouble.
(( Amen )) .
I don't know what we're going to be able to do about it
I guess it's sitting around so long that it's sort of like our mortgages.
I don't ever expect to pay mine off before I die
I guess why should the government .
that's the way they're thinking these days anyway.
It to be.
it really does bother me when I think about, leaving our children this sort of, a national problem that we can't seem to find answer to it,
I don't know.
don't think it ever will really.
maybe if they ever get to the point (( outlaid )) expense has always been wars or defense.
If they were to take half of what they spend on that and put it on some economic, or inter United States like programs that one really might.
believe in paying my share,
I don't mind, paying for some of these fringe benefits that people are entitled to.
sometimes feel like I'm being used.
again I don't think we'll be able to do anything about it,
quite possible.
I guess we keep plugging away a little bit
it will just totally get even more out of control
don't know.
Bite the bullet.
It sounds like you have a baby there.
She's a,
we're not feeling too well over here
that's a shame.
She's not the one going to Washington,
Oh .
I don't think I could part with her.
Okay, Geri.
We've probably been on long enough.
They didn't cut us off,
I think that will probably do it
it was nice talking to you.
Okey doke.
Bye bye .
Bye bye.
What's your favorite T V show?
I used to like ST. ELSEWHERE.
That's one of my old favorites.
I'm being beeped,
I'll just ignore it.
did like THIRTY SOMETHING
my daughter says NINE OH TWO ONE OH.
We like that one.
that's one of my favorites.
how old are you?
I'm twenty eight.
you're little bit younger than I am,
I think if my seventeen year old, my fourteen year old, my other two children like it,
I'm over forty,
I like it.
I think it's wonderful.
it's a good show.
I like MURPHY BROWN and DESIGNING WOMEN, too.
are so busy with, all of our kids are in sports,
I hardly ever watch T V,
that's one we watch.
Sunday nights we watch, LIFE GOES ON.
I like that,
a good show, too.
Very good.
Did you see the one on Sunday?
it was a,
I did miss that Sunday,
I didn't.
That one kid that Becca likes
it's a good episode.
he has AIDS.
new character on there did.
All the way to North Carolina.
What time is it there?
it is twenty minutes to nine.
my gosh.
I'm twenty minutes to six here .
Three hours difference.
What else do you like?
let's see, I like a lot of different shows.
Let's see, I like MURDER, SHE WROTE.
watched that ever in my entire life.
MATLOCK is another good one I watch.
then during daytimes ALL MY CHILDREN.
A small bowl will be plenty.
that's mine.
That's the only one I watch whenever I,
a small bowl will be better because it's pretty fattening.
Talk to my daughter.
ALL MY CHILDREN,
I've watched that for about twelve years.
sure I watched it for more than that probably.
Twenty something.
I used to watch GENERAL HOSPITAL when I was a teenager because I,
I quit watching GENERAL HOSPITAL when Leslie got killed.
that was a long time ago.
I used to watch it, in high school and college
when Laura's mother got killed.
She was my favorite character on there.
I just,
I read the reason killed her off was because they couldn't settle a contract,
I said, if they're going to do that to her, I won't watch it.
that's great.
I do like ALL MY CHILDREN,
like it, I don't know.
I just,
I like the people on it, I guess,
I like it.
I just wish they'd bring some of the old characters back.
Tad's going to come back, I bet, do you think?
I'm sure he will.
He'll come back, show up at just the right moment.
I kind of wish that, Nina would come back because she
because the story,
just for a brief visit or whatever, because it never has been resolved with Palmer remarrying, and everything,
Daisy, pops in once in a while,
I forgot about Nina and Cliff, right.
Cliff's on THE YOUNG AND THE RESTLESS now.
he is.
he's out for good.
he's out for good.
Did they marry?
Nina and Cliff?
that's how they left the show, but not in real life.
Now she's married to some guy in New York,
she's happily married
that's the reason she left the show.
I guess she wanted a private life.
I watch it maybe twice a month,
I don't watch it everyday like I did when I had babies.
I play lots of tennis
I'm gone a lot,
I don't get to watch,
I watch it everyday, religiously.
I videotape it when I have to miss it.
no kidding.
like that .
I'm that way about a lot of different shows.
I'm that way about MURPHY BROWN, DESIGNING WOMEN.
have a new chick on there what's her name?
there's two new characters on there.
There's, Jan Hooks from SATURDAY NIGHT LIFE.
I don't know if you know her or not.
That's a show I like.
, the blond headed girl that used to be on NEWHART.
I don't like her on it,
I never have liked her,
just know which one she is.
I don't,
She's taken the Suzanne's part,
Jan Hooks has taken Charlene's part.
Charlene was Delta Burke?
Charlene was Jean Smart, the blond headed.
I never watch that one either.
I really don't watch a whole lot of T V, just, on Sunday nights,
LIFE GOES ON comes on about the time that we eat dinner,
my whole family's home, because I don't allow the kids out on Sunday night
because they've got to go to bed and go to school the next day,
sit around and eat popcorn
then we watch AMERICA'S FUNNIEST HOME VIDEOS.
Those are always pretty cute.
MURDER, SHE WROTE comes on opposite of that,
you don't watch that one
instead of,
I pick nights pretty much so on T V that I watch different networks,
BEVERLY HILLS NINE OH TWO ONE OH, watch it religiously.
we like that real well.
be sure to watch it tomorrow night
because somebody's getting killed on it.
I know.
The kids already know who it is,
I don't know who it is, though,
Who is it?
Ask them .
Let me ask Nicole.
Do you want to start?
it doesn't matter.
we're discussing the capital punishment, I believe.
You are right.
suppose I should have,
I pro capital punishment except that I don't like the way it's done.
guess, hate to see anyone die,
I guess these people that go around kill children and women and everything else without any remorse, I don't think they deserve live and be supported by us the rest of their lives.
capital punishment is necessary many cases
it's not a deterrent, or our jails would not be so full.
There wouldn't be so many people in Death Row.
I think it needs to be something, a throwback to where they did a, public execution where it's visible.
something, not gruesome
something more where people know that was a deterrent and it was equal for all people.
If you committed a certain crime, you were going to receive a death penalty
it was going to happen to you.
No stays of execution.
that I don't really know if that would help.
I think a lot of these people do it, mainly because of, of T V
a ,
the double reason see it being done on T V and also the fact notoriety.
they become well known.
They are almost a big star.
know that their chances of actually receiving the death penalty are minimal.
They know that they will probably be out in ten to twelve years.
That they are going to write a book.
They are going to go on talk shows
they're goin ,
that's a reward
for a (( heinous )) crime rather than, having them pay the penalty which is forfeiture of their life.
(( )) of any notoriety.
I think if they went according to, the BIBLE where it does say,
an eye for an eye,
a tooth for a tooth, a life for a life,
you take a life you give yours.
that's for sure.
there's exceptions to the rule
it's an accidental taking then, you look at that
most of these people that down right go right do it out of pure pleasure
I don't, like to see that.
I guess also the fact that they say it's not a deterrent,
it is a deterrent sense that that person will never do it again .
they will.
not, not if he's killed he can't,
(( )) ,
do it again.
that's correct,
he indeed receives
The death penalty.
the death penalty and executed.
the chances are not great that that will happen.
there's a greater chance that he'll be back out on the streets in twelve years.
guess I'm also looking at beyond even that.
I guess I been thinking about it
I don't have a definite opinion
repeat, crimes
maybe not more mild ones but, more severe ones especially armed robbery and stuff where they been taking from elderly people,
and not just taking the money but beating them half to death.
That's right.
Just for pleasure too
I guess you've got to look at something like that.
Do they deserve to, remain on this earth too?
you could carry it to that they are a repeat offender
you know that as soon as you let them out on the streets they are going to do this.
Unfortunately the way our system of jurisprudence is set up, you only receive the death penalty for capital crimes,
(( of course )) of battery or assault or, that is not a capital crime
wouldn't be able to under our system.
China and a few other countries have a little different view of that.
you get caught with dope there and you die, period.
There is no,
I don't know what to do about the federal budget.
there certainly have been ideas surfaced, recently, matter of fact repeatedly by many people
I sort of wondered thoughts you had on that area.
first one is we need people in there understand, numbers. The numbers that are being thrown around we're talking in trillions of dollars.
which is an astronomical sum
the people that are talking this numbers have no concept of what that number means.
talking about the elected people
are you talking about others?
The elected people.
our Senate and Congress people deal everyday what's going to be done with those monies
and don't really understand what that is or how a budget even works.
we need to elect people that are more,
I'm not sure how you would ach ,
how would you achieve that?
make them have a degree in
you would trust the decision making economists?
Sometimes called the dismal science.
people know the value of a dollar that understand the value of a dollar,
wh ,
needs them to be eliminated,
from Congress.
They don't make pragmatic decisions.
They make a decision based on
instead of a decision based on what they really believe.
they tack on this, pork bellies do things are good for their area to pass something not good for the country.
you would favor a law which said there could not be lobbyists.
right now lobbyists require to register you'd just say,
definitely would.
Get rid of them.
(( them all )) .
No causes that you think the lobbyists would be good for?
think that any company or anything that wants to contribute to a fund
should be able to do that, and be registered with what they ever contribute.
they should not have a one on one relationship with the people making the decisions that affect them.
a conflict of interest as far as I'm concerned.
When you are talking again, billions and trillions of dollars
jeopardizing the future of the country, for today.
you talk about jeopardizing the future.
Would you be against any deficit spending?
think to bring it in line you are going to have to have a generation that's going to really bite the bullet to bring it in line.
You can't ease into it.
It took years and years to build up the momentum that's there now.
forget the figures on the interest rate
it's something like, hundreds of thousands of dollars a second
in interest.
Part of the problem is we don't loan from ourselves.
buy from intimate international banking.
That's why we have interest.
I really feel that is part of the problem that let things get so out of control we don't want to put the brakes on them.
practical steps take?
having a budget feasible, that is reasonable.
everybody will say that he is for that.
of course.
(( Sure )) .
how will you,
add on to it.
make that actually happen?
You take the gross national income
and you say our budget is X number of percent of this gross national income.
One thing we could do is give a ten percent income tax.
Across the board,
everyone no matter what,
pays a ten percent income tax.
Sounds like a good idea.
Nothing escapes, right?
That's right.
deductions, nothing.
No deductions.
Just ten percent.
You pay a ten percent income tax.
That's what you pay
if you make forty million dollars, then you're going to pay four million.
I ,
if you make forty dollars, you're going to pay four dollars.
that's it.
agree with that
that's a good idea
is it your expectation that that would raise the total revenues collected lower them or what?
I don't know that it would or wouldn't.
what's your favorite baseball team, Rita?
I suppose I'm supposed to say the Rangers, right .
Is that what I ,
is the million dollar question here?
that isn't true false or right or wrong test here.
I would to say the Rangers,
unfortunately they're not.
I was from Illinois,
my favorite team was the White Sox.
Not a Cubbies fan,
I turned out to be a White Sox fan.
that's all right.
I lived in Chicago.
How do you expect them to do this year?
they did pretty well.
What did you think of the World Series?
I'll tell you.
I just, moved down from South Dakota in July,
in South Dakota, the Minnesota Twins are the closest professional sports team to where I was living
everybody was a Twins fan,
I didn't have much interest in the Twins,
kind of pathetic,
we only had two radio stations,
one of them broadcast every Twins game live,
the other one was country.
you didn't really have a lot of choice, did you.
that's right.
There's was Twins there, or,
Or country.
Skip Williams.
I was routing for the Twins myself because, a couple of Ranger players that I had watched when we first moved here, went to Minnesota,
we used to tease my son
I used to have a bet going about some of the players that had moved from here to Minnesota,
an exciting Series, anyway.
It sure was,
it sure was.
What do you think going to happen to the Rangers?
can we predict?
I would like to assume that they're going to better this coming year,
I was sure hopeful anyway.
When we moved down, I was able to go to my first, baseball game, and
thought, this is great, this is incredible.
I became a Rangers fan.
I didn't really have one in South Dakota.
I adopted the Rangers,
rather they adopted me, I guess
it was just exciting,
you can watch baseball on T V
they hit the long ball,
it looks like wow, they really hit that ball.
when you go to the ball park, it's really not all that far
it's so much more exciting watching a ball come at you,
isn't it though.
think going to the ball park just really makes it. Because then you watch it on T V you feel like you're more a part of it too.
That's right,
that's right.
I'm a great sports enthusiast,
I love, baseball teams,
in fact, on the news tonight, Nolan Ryan was on there.
in Restaurant Hall of Fame .
The Restaurant Ha ,
The Restaurant Hall of Fame inducted him tonight,
he, says he's coming back,
he doesn't know how many years
to pitch.
He'll be at least one more,
he said he's been saying one more, and it's been two and three, might be two and three more.
He likes it.
That's right
he's still doing great
That's right.
still doing excellent.
he said, I get a kick out of it,
such a nice man.
didn't he just sign a twelve year contract with the Rangers?
when he quits at being active, he will go into,
managing and, being a coach, I'm sure.
certainly is a good example, for the kids.
That's right.
you like to have someone like that you could point to say, see what a fine man, that, he is.
some of the,
Ivan Rodriguez wasn't even born Nolan Ryan started pitching.
That's right.
it's just incredible to think that players who are the sons of ball players that used to play against Nolan
or with Nolan,
now their sons are.
he's been a legend for so many years,
I don't know,
yet when he did the exhibition at U T with his son.
His son pitched for U T
he pitched for an exhibition game for the Rangers.
I wasn't.
it was a,
I think it was a little early part of the summer,
Was it Nolan against,
Nolan against.
Ryan against Ryan,
Ryan against Ryan,
his son pitched for U T
that is neat.
only, Ryan didn't want too much publicity on it because he didn't want his son getting too nervous about this whole thing.
A game is a game,
the Rangers really, knocked the socks off of them, which you would expect
Nolan I think took himself out after a couple of innings or something, of the game
how do you feel about capital punishment?
just last Friday got off a capital murder case.
you did?
I was on the jury.
Yeah .
Which is funny because I got called last night
the topic was, something about juries .
really ?
I am just hitting it right.
how do I feel about it?
don't know.
I guess it is right in certain cases.
Becau ,
the one I was just on, I don't,
I was an alternate on the case,
I don't know what was decided.
They are probably still in deliberations on it.
what I found out,
I was declared an alternate and I was dismissed, we met with the judge, the two alternates did.
he went on to tell us how they happened to catch this guy
I remember hearing about it.
It was about a year ago.
involved in capital murder the very next month
he was caught just,
drove up,
the police drove up just as he fired the and killed the guy.
he was caught
it's interesting because the county I live in,
I'm not in Dallas county,
pretty far north of Dallas.
county I live the past ten years only had capital murders.
last year there were six
this guy is indicted on three of them.
Wow .
you have to wonder ,
the cases like that, they
if he's going to be drastic, somebody has to be drastic back.
although, it's not really revenge because it doesn't mean anything to him.
has no concept of what he has done.
He just,
from what I can tell. I didn't talk to the guy or anything,
he doesn't seem to have any regard for anybody's life including his own.
kind of strange that,
remorse whatsoever,
I guess in cases like where the guy would, obviously, go out and do it again
you've got to do something.
it's funny because when, they interview you before you go on the jury
for capital murder, I was interviewed by four attorneys for about five hours.
I was the, I think the ninety eighth person they'd interviewed.
You're kidding.
at the time when the guy kept saying could you ever convict someone
do you think you'd ever know beyond a doubt
I said I can't imagine,
I said if I knew beyond a doubt or if I felt beyond a doubt that he had done it, yeah,
I guess I could convict him,
I can't imagine you ever making me that sure of something.
they really did.
really amazing.
I guess if the police came out and saw him fire the gun,
that was a subsequent case that we didn't know about.
And those jurors don't know about.
this particular case, they had a complete confession from the guy
with a lot of things the police hadn't released
no one else would have known.
really pretty interesting.
I guess cases like that, I don't see why they wouldn't bring in the new evidence from the other case.
I think in the punishment phase
but not in the guilt or innocence because found guilty of it.
Of that crime
he was found guilty of anoth ,
That works.
it's not going to take much
to prove that.
they pushing the death penalty?
this guy is up for the death penalty.
in Texas a couple of questions you have to ask, in the punishment phase.
for example, was the guy provoked and was the response reasonable given the provocation .
there is a number of questions
just depending on whether you say yes or no, can give him capital punishment
if you're up to the point where if he still qualifies for capital punishment, then you can look at mitigating circumstances.
there is a lot of outs,
the only result is, otherwise he gets life in prison.
I'm really kind of against life in prison anyway
Yeah .
because it costs so dog gone much.
to me, you take away a person's freedom, you've taken away most of their life.
That's true.
if you're going to put him in prison for life
with no chance for parole,
you have to look at reality.
I think, normally may get out
That's true.
what is it worth?
I don't know.
Personally I don't know which I would pick if I had a choice for myself.
That's true.
I don't know whether I'd stay in prison or not
you said you're from Mississippi?
Yes, ma'am.
do they have the death penalty there?
they do.
they've had number of cases here.
not a whole lot,
Jackson, I heard just the other day had their sixty first murder this year.
It was like last year they had forty nine
that's going up.
they have a death penalty.
I hear of one every now and then.
I visited the prison up here
at Parchman
I've been,
I haven't,
they won't let you on death row,
they'll let you look down the hall.
You can't see any prisoners
it's kind of a weird feeling.
I've been
they took us around on a tour,
I to walk in the gas chamber
it is kind of a weird feeling knowing you're sitting there saying, people have died here.
That's right.
I guess, just going up there and seeing the surroundings and stuff, the people up there,
let's see,
what type of car do I want?
I'd like to have a Corvette.
my, weekly wages don't apply for me to have that kind of car,
I'm engaged to get married
I'll more likely get a car for economic reasons.
to drive back and forth to work is all I'll need a car for pretty much.
we have a truck,
probably a economic size car or,
What kind of a car do you have now?
Right now I have a eighty seven Cavalier.
It's a piece of ,
My car is really old, too,
I drive out of town a lot of the weekends
I would like my next car to have good gas mileage.
same here,
a nice car, American made
nice car, not too expensive,
I couldn't afford a brand new Lamborghini .
I hardly drive,
while we're talking,
right .
While we're talking, my next car, I'd like to be sporty and,
it's expensive
insurance is really high for that, too
I know.
Something that's not too sporty because of insurance, then
that insurance does come into play.
I forgot about that.
What kind of insurance do you have up there
is it real high up there?
mine just got lowered because I just turned twenty one
I'm not sure really how much I pay.
I just,
my mom's helping me out, because
I just give her the money
and take her word for it .
that insurance is high dollars.
it is,
the more expensive the car, the higher it is
Unless I win the lottery, I won't be driving,
anything too expensive.
I don't plan on buying a car for many, many years
I have to make this one last as long as I can.
What's everybody drive up there?
in Kenosha? .
in Wisconsin, they drive them little
it just is,
four wheelers or four wheel drive
do you all need four wheel drives up there because of snow and everything?
have a Jeep with four wheel drive of the snow, you mean
it never snows down here,
we don't have any snow here now.
It all melted.
there is no snow at all.
We haven't had snow yet.
We usually only get once a year or so.
Kind of strange to you all,
it is.
Because, how,
it's like seventy degrees here right now.
don't tell me that .
cold is it there?
it's been warm,
it's in the forties.
really warm.
it's supposed to rain tomorrow
I've only seen snow once this year.
it was really bad
it all melted within the week.
now there is no snow,
is your dream car?
I haven't really thought about it.
I'm not too big on cars.
I don't know the names and stuff,
if I were to go to a car lot and look at them
I would pick out one that, looked really nice.
What's your favorite color?
for a car?
Probably blue.
if it, was just an average, middle class car.
if I were to get a sports car, maybe white or red .
Right ,
what kind of car do you drive right now?
it's a Sky Hawk Buick.
Eighty three,
I think.
like eighty two thousand miles.
I'm afraid it's not going to last me that long
I hope it does, though.
It's a two door.
smaller cars.
I find them more comfortable to drive.
does everybody have their windows tinted up there?
I don't see too many cars tinted.
Everybody has tinted down here.
I'm sure,
see why.
you been down here before?
Did you like it?
It was busy .
it's different
I bet,
It was nice.
I remember, swimming on Easter day
it was really cold up here,
Right .
came back with a little tan,
that was nice .
everybody freaks out when it sn ,
I guess,
one have you got right now?
couple of them,
I, at the moment, use an A S T two eighty six
I got a leading edge
I got a American one and had a I B M one,
just a couple.
What do you have ?
I've got an Omega
I've got a, generic three eighty, or four eighty six machine.
it's very, very generic.
What did you do, put it together?
upgraded it and put things in there and dibbled and dabbled
now it's a fast machine .
That's all I got to say for it.
What do you use it for?
What do you use it for?
I'm a contract programmer.
What kind of programs do you,
anything .
business programs
I've done business programming, applications like, petroleum science stuff and,
test equipment
did one that was, the demonstration of a screen for a company that sells, touch screens.
It was kind of fun.
Put a little bitty portable computer in there and a plasma display.
And make it look like things like, attack simulators
all sorts of little things you'd want to put your finger on the screen for.
that sounds interesting.
Matter of fact, I guess a lot of graphics in there, I imagine,
That's where the speed helps out.
unfortunately the little portable P C that was plugged on the back was only a seven and a half megahertz,
It's slow .
slow you up .
do, programming for C N C turret presses and
cat cam system type things
really need a faster system.
I got a new line that sell metal fabricating equipment, and cat cam systems, and tooling, et cetera.
I know a guy that upgrades, for a reasonable cost.
Who is that?
his name is T Q or something like that.
my notebook is somewhere around here .
See if I can make my telephone cord stretch far enough.
I've tried to do is get this outfit to
he's, up in,
give me one .
That's how I got my other ones by selling their product for them.
They not only give me a demonstrator, but the hardware as well as the software.
as they,
that works.
as they go to the next one I just keep the,
that's why I have so many different levels of P C s around at the moment.
here it is.
A T S Computers.
A T S?
where are they at?
do you know where, Custer is?
he's, south of Renner Custer.
(( )) .
there is a little bitty mall that looks kind of like, strip kind of center.
In Richardson there.
In Richardson?
I know where you mean.
There is a Mobil and all that kind of s , on that one corner,
that's about Lookout there, I think, isn't it.
it's just south of there.
It's a little place, looks like a castle.
Kind of, little guy in there.
gives reasonable prices.
traded my, three eighty six for the four eighty six for about six hundred.
that's a good deal.
it was pretty reasonable.
he does a good job
he, he, guarantees everything he sells.
there is a lot,
you ever go by Lucky Computer there?
I used to,
when I was putting shop floor computers together for guys, I'd go and get their units and put them together and go and interface the stuff with our systems.
Haven't been doing much of that for the last year or so.
don't know where those guys are at these days.
I, (( )) ,
up there in that mall. just below Campbell.
Or that center.
They're still doing business. Big business, apparently.
I tell you, those prices have just, unbelievably come down.
I was amazed I was able to get this four eighty six for six hundred even with a trade in,
it's like, wow .
That works,
I'll go do that .
boy that thing screams now.
I was kind of surprised how rapidly they bypassed,
the three eighty six.
That wasn't alive for but maybe two years.
I thought was funny that they kept pushing the three eighty six S X even though price difference is about ten dollars.
Is that right?
That's it?
comes on the manufacturing floor it's about ten bucks.
I'll be darned.
you've done.
Our most recent series of projects I guess, we remodeled a bathroom recently.
how did it go?
it went pretty well, other than the fact that we encountered some, problems that you run across in older homes with plumbing, which one thing led to another,
eventually we ended up replacing all the pipes from the sink clear back to the main drain.
like starting over, I guess.
Which meant you needed to take the wall out and start all over.
It wasn't one of those,
it started out as a Sunday project
huh .
the next Sunday it was done.
It wasn't a one dayer.
Believe me.
Boy, that sounds like,
course, I don't know,
once you get it done, then you probably won't have that problem again.
it's good for another thirty years.
you've got an older house?
They are built a little bit more sturdy than ,
that's the thing that surprised me, because once I got into the plumbing
everything in there was copper,
it was all soldered.
is that right.
That's what drove me bananas, because, I'm going to the hardware store saying give me plastic pipe and
and cement
(( )) .
to fit them together
nothing wanted to go,
it was like I had to go all the way back to the main drain and start all over.
just start at square one.
That was an all day job, just to get it plumbed.
if you do it wrong .
in the fact that, when I made the installation of the sink and everything bolted up and we turned the water on
Everything went all right.
nothing leaked,
everything worked.
I just said, that's marvelous.
I appreciate it.
That's the type of thing you cross your fingers and are glad when that happens.
I expected something to leak,
left a fitting loose, or
didn't use teflon tape on one of them or something like that.
it all came together,
felt pretty fortunate about that.
All worked out all right,
How about you?
probably the last thing I did was, paint and wallpaper kids room
I learned to,
I used the wrong kind of paint.
This must have not been a very good quality, because it just hasn't stood up very well.
What kind of paint?
It was a latex
it was flat
I wonder if maybe I should have used a gloss.
they say you ought to use your gloss mainly in your
(( )) .
kitchens, and things like that.
that, and semigloss for trim work, and usually flat for walls.
I think maybe,
I don't know if it was just the.
Was it not washable paint?
is a latex paint,
it just kind of
it, just looks dingy.
I don't know how else to explain it.
What color is it?
It's pink.
It's kind of got, just kind of a worn look to it.
I don't know even how to say,
just didn't turn out quite as nice as I would have liked
Did you, require more than one can of paint?
put two coats on it,
it's a small room,
I think it only took one, can.
You didn't have to mix paint then, right.
We did,
you do mix the color as far as you start with, white
C and
then they add the color.
You know what I'm saying
you only had one can of paint that you
did the entire room with.
I wall papered a couple of walls,
How'd that go?
that was the first time I've ever wallpapered,
Kind of fun, isn't it.
That's an education in itself.
the dye lots, must have been a little bit different from,
first of all it takes quite a few rolls, even a small room, if you're trying to match a design.
Repeating patterns is what you have to check for
buy your paper.
That's what I needed,
I didn't think about that.
I got a Mickey Mouse print is what I got.
a lot is wasted.
Normally it will tell you on the roll how often a pattern repeats.
you know how.
I didn't even think to look for that.
one of them was just a pink, is what it ended up being.
(( )) .
When you did your papering did you start in the middle of the wall?
I didn't.
did you start at the edge?
Is that how you're supposed to do?
I started at one edge and went over,
then you had to cut around the closet
and cut around a window
I've had my best luck in papering when I start in the middle of a wall,
I'll start with a plumb line.
start right there.
And start in the middle of the wall, go from there, and go all the way around the room.
Do you seem to get it straighter,
is that the advantage,
what's the,
Do you have any children?
I have boys, twelve and sixteen.
Twelve and sixteen.
how about you?
I have three,
they're five and three and nineteen months.
we kind of got different ball game
Right .
do you feel like you have any time,
to spend with them?
They're probably at an age where they don't want to spend any time with their parents.
That's true .
You of course, spend less time with them when they get older,
it's, of course, still really important.
I have a kind of a fortunate situation, I think, right now with my sixteen year old.
I work two nights a week at a,
I'm a librarian
I work two nights a week at the Senior High School library.
They keep it open, for kids to do their work
hires an aide, to work
for me.
my son is my aide.
that's nice.
two nights a week for four hours we're stuck together
You're stuck together.
there's usually not very much business.
some nights it's just quiet.
I would suspect your nights would be pretty quiet for the most part.
have sort of a captive audience,
I really do spend probably more time with him most,
of course I'm away from my other son those hours, too.
his dad's at home
pretty much that time.
kind of gives him, time with his dad, then.
that's true,
Gives him a little bit of that individual time.
it is hard, once they get that age,
their friends are the most important thing there is.
they want to be able to spend,
That's right.
I've even noticed that with my five year old. She started kindergarten this year,
every day that she's not at school, she thinks we need to have someone over and play
huh .
that kind of
it's kind of hard.
it's hard,
I think, I find myself getting my little projects going and not taking the time that I should .
I'm more worried about,
I didn't this done,
I didn't get,
the kitchen needs to be cleaned
this needs to be done,
I need to myself to slow down
it'll still be there tomorrow.
that's true.
that's kind of hard to do,
it is hard to do,
You don't see yourself getting.
if you're kind of a person that likes things, organized or neat
then I think is hard.
I think one of the nice things about holidays is that, it does give you the opportunity to spend more time
Slow down a little bit.
with family.
to Illinois
for Christmas,
we're not this year,
it's just really nice because we can do, the things you want to do.
You can do, more than
than when you travel.
that's right.
This is the first year we're staying home, too,
I think it's going to be real quiet
that's an opportunity to get out the games
we usually do that,
kids even have already gotten out,
my twelve year old got out the Legos
which of course he hasn't touched since last summer
every now and then, he's got a lot of
he wants to be an engineer,
he still likes
all that kind of building stuff
we have the train,
we haven't had that Lego train together for years,
he sat down,
I told him I really wanted him to build the train,
we would put it under the tree, and that I would keep it together,
I wouldn't take it apart
Wouldn't take it apart after that.
every year I'd have the Lego train under the tree.
That'd be kind of fun.
he worked on that for the longest time, ever since school was out on Friday,
then his sixteen year old brother started helping, too,
these are kind of things during the normal rat race
those kinds of things never happen
In fact in, I think if people would learn to turn off the T V s
I think that's a lot of the breakdown of the communication
the communication
Which is,
that would take place in a family,
usually people are not sitting in front of that.
there's always a few people in the family that, when they stare at it, they're totally turned off to everything else.
The rest of.
you can't communicate while you're doing that, right?
No .
That's right.
Whereas, I'm the type of person, I could not sit,
I shouldn't say I could not,
be very hard for me to sit down and watch a program all the way through without
me too.
doing something.
I don't watch very much of it at all, the extent that sometimes I feel almost embarrassed at work and stuff like that
Because they talk so much,
isn't that the,
they talk about T V shows,
how can you watch that,
You're kind of like, what are you talking about
it's the best show on,
I don't know.
You feel like you're a little bit out of it, don't you.
They need to have a highlight in the newspaper or something tell us what's,
all set, then.
what do you think about it?
I think it's a real good concept.
drug testing procedures would have to be refined.
From what I've seen on the news , there's pretty good size problem with poor accuracy, poor procedure in, drug testing.
I didn't realize that.
there have been people who have been turned down for jobs because there was a drug showed up test,
they didn't know for sure what it was,
it was a drug,
they got turned down
turns out it was a prescription. Or people getting somebody else's blood test.
Same sort of problem that happens
sometimes is AIDS tests and such.
that's right,
I have heard,
I don't remember what they call it, sort of like a positive, negatives or kind of word they use when you get positive indication of drugs,
any there.
every now and then there's an error
people are really upset about that when it comes to their rights and their rights being violated.
work here at Texas Instruments
let me think, do we, everyone coming in.
I guess I did three years ago.
Everyone coming in, goes through the drug testing procedure
they talk about it as better for the country and better for the working conditions.
if test for drugs.
I can't even remember if we do random sampling anymore.
I know we did in the military,
Yeah .
I don't know if once your in they continue to do it,
I guess you're always on call for it.
I not very long ago worked for Wal Mart
about a year and a half ago they instituted
not a random
through the s ,
as each employee comes in
part of the hiring procedure is blood test .
B ,
(( )) I think the big problem, though, they send these off to large labs
they have thousands and thousands of samples that, going through it in a day and bottles get mixed up, things like that.
your big beef with it is the,
It's (( )) .
it's a good idea,
like you said the drug testing procedures need to be defined a little better.
Make sure it's a lot safer because a couple of people are going to be discriminated against unfairly or whatever.
I, I tend to agree with you David.
my used to work for Wal Mart
I don't know if he still does or what because I don't know if Sam's is actually part of it,
is working at Sam's now.
Sam's is part of Wal Mart.
then he's been working for the company for a while, too.
Good company,
You all, have some,
Company's, that was a great place to work.
telling me about good profit sharing and all that,
It's good news .
they got to had two or three years in with them you can start buying stock
you little taken out of your check payday to
put against, F stock portfolio.
not portfolio, just, against Wal Mart stock.
you can build a pretty fair amount of stock after a while.
that's what my brother was telling me.
That's good deal.
how long were we s ,
I haven't done this in a couple months.
How long were we supposed to discuss for?
you're supposed to get five minutes.
we got a couple more minutes then, I guess .
think what else I can say about that.
do you have any idea,
let's see,
tested for drugs as you got into T I?
everyone coming in through the drug test.
were you asked to wait before starting to work until the drug test came through
let me think about that.
it was after, already been hired.
Okay .
you get hired, then you come in the first,
seems to me I remember that, I was hired, came in and went through some orientation
I thought I,
I can't remember.
That would seem strange to already be working here in the first week of the drug test.
Maybe it was during the interview.
I came up a couple times for an interview,
it's hard for me to remember where I was when all that happened.
I guess, just like other companies, other friends I've been hearing about that have been moving around,
They have to wait for the drug test to come in before you actually get employment,
sure that happened to me, too.
they just instituted it there at Wal Mart
it was after I was already working there
they weren't testing any of those who were already working.
you heard the question,
what do you like to do for yourself in car automobile repairs?
I'll tell you, I used to do a lot more repairs when cars were easy to work on, than I do now.
the easy stuff now.
I change oil,
what some people would consider a little more difficult, change spark plugs
I'll change, points and, do air filters, that kind of stuff.
I can't do as much as I used to,
I used to do a whole lot more, but not any more,
they're just too weird to work on now.
Is that the reason you're not doing it,
are you so busy you don't have time to do it?
that's part of it
part of it is, like you said, I don't have time.
being a female and being alone, I don't do anything but put gasoline,
in my car, and let someone else check the oil even.
have you had any major repairs recently?
on this car I've got now, no,
I had a van before,
it was only two years old,
it had transmission go out on it.
fortunately that was covered under the warranty.
you should feel very fortunate.
I had to have a transmission replaced in an eighty six automobile
I'll declare, that's an expensive.
Maybe I should have just traded the car in.
sometimes it makes you wonder.
it just,
I have a very comfortable car
I have a health problem that I need a large comfortable car.
I have a new transmission,
I'm sure that any of them would have me almost the same amount.
it hurts,
it hurts real bad.
Did you take it to a dealership?
I took it to an independent
out in Garland.
I see.
I had,
these people were recommended by a neighbor
that's the only thing,
I am not a native of Dallas.
I see.
that means I have to depend trustworthy friends
it's fixed,
it's running,
I pray that I get my thirteen hundred dollars out of it.
It's going to run while yet.
I know it.
It certainly is frightening.
What work are you in?
work for T I.
work in the networking area.
Do you work for T I?
I have just retired from, the Southwest Medical Center.
where there are a lot of people down there that could help me with my car,
they're all too busy.
I have to do it the other way,
that's find someone and pay them to do it.
I certainly hope you have a nice New Year.
planning on it.
it can't be any worse than last year,
that's for sure.
it could be,
I don't much think so .
That's true,
that's true.
starting out a new one,
let's make it a good one.
I'm going to try and plan on it.
I enjoyed the conversation.
Thank you.
thank you.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
do you watch much T V
I don't watch much T V.
the reason I will turn it on is to hear the news.
The news,
I don't think of that every day, even.
I think I get most of my current events,
I get them from everywhere.
I sometimes watch T V if I,
I guess I watch T V if I haven't read the paper that day.
We don't get a paper
I work, at a,
I teach a college class
there's a,
the library has a paper.
I often drop in on a break and
and read it.
I keep the radio on quite a bit when I'm home.
figure if there's news, I'll hear it from my husband when he gets home or,
someone else,
I also,
I get it from all over.
I watch the news every day,
a news,
we get the newspaper, and,
I read a lot,
I get,
really up on, current affairs.
I get,
the news everything.
what's your favorite news,
do you get a news magazine
I'm not getting an ,
I'm not getting any news magazines
I said, I do,
easy to keep up on current event ,
we've got.
especially when you,
you get a paper every day.
Are you satisfied with the quality of coverage?
I don't know .
Is there anything missing?
I, .
it's kind of hard to know.
I don't know, what are we supposed to, compare it to
the quality,
whatever they tell you,
guess I'm satisfied.
supposedly covering everything that happens,
I do feel
being from California and wanting to hear
I've heard through the grapevine sometimes that there's been an earthquake or sliding or something,
I don't ever hear it in the news here.
(( ))
sometimes it's such a,
the tremors are so slight that they don't even bother putting it in the
most of I find that even if tremors out there, there'll be a small article in the paper about it.
I sometimes feel like, the Dallas paper and the DALLAS NEWS, the top headlines are always a murder,
That's what sells papers.
that's because there's a high crime rate.
been like that since the first newspaper, .
I'm sure.
I don't know.
guess I'm satisfied,
I don't,
what basis, of comparison do we have really?
We don't get a,
That's true.
We certainly get enough coverage.
can get news,
there's even the C N N channel
I was going to.
where we can get world news twenty four hours a day.
Sometimes you don't even want to be bothered with the news because it's all so bad .
Yeah .
It's all so negative,
often times.
we have to keep talking, I guess .
I guess we can end.
it's just whenever we're,
is it really?
Have you always gone until the recording?
I guess we're not supposed to .
I don't know,
we're sup ,
(( )) .
I guess we're supposed to wait
I don't know.
was it last week, we were supposed to talk about gardening
it was really funny,
I mixed it, made the call,
it happened to be my friend who lives a few blocks away.
it was really.
We were laughing,
we don't really do any gardening,
that took like a minute
we just talked about, whatever,
some topics,
really this topic, this is,
there really isn't much to say after
you tell the person find their sources of information from
they're satisfied,
that's about it, really.
It's hard to talk for five minutes on this .
Yeah .
I guess I can just say it bothers me that I hear a lot on the news that,
it seems like, some things are sensationalized or some things are,
you'll hear one report
you'll hear that they didn't,
what are your favorite shows?
I like watching COLOMBO and, MATLOCK and
QUANTUM LEAP,
QUANTUM LEAP?
Did you see it the other night?
pretty good.
that one was.
What about,
What do you,
with the psychic and everything?
NORTHERN EXPOSURE and, HOME IMPROVEMENT.
haven't seen either of those .
You've never seen NORTHERN EXPOSURE?
it's a great show.
I also like to watch STAR TREK,
it's on so late here, that I don't always get to see it .
we like it, too.
Have you seen the movie?
I haven't seen any of the movies because I in the last year or so got interested in it,
they're, already out with number six by now,
I haven't seen any of the movies, yet,
you haven't seen any of them.
they're good,
they're real good.
getting rid of the old cast for the movies, though.
Which ones are you watching, the new ones?
I've seen quite a few of the older ones.
I haven't seen really the new generation that much.
Is there one you prefer better, the older one or one?
a lot different.
the older ones because at that time, they were really futuristic,
real futuristic, too,
both of them.
I do too.
I have a brother in law who really likes the old ones a lot,
he almost hates the new ones .
thinks the newer ones is like a soap opera and the other one isn't or something,
I don't .
Not really.
It's not really like
I think,
a soap
that's true,
learn more about the characters and stuff,
that's the way all shows are now.
let's see.
I like to watch COLOMBO because it's like a mystery thing.
That's sort of how Matlock is,
COLOMBO is way tricky
he doesn't even try to let the person know he's getting onto them.
it seems like they always
did you see the one.
show COLOMBO, the same ones over and over, though
like that one where he goes to college,
a series on.
there's one on,
we see it Thursdays at seven,
it was,
this last time it was about this, movie director,
did you hap ,
I saw that one.
did you see that?
that was a rerun.
I guess I nev ,
I wondered if that's
I don't know if that's movie of the week what,
it seems like there's only about four or five different ones,
they keep showing them over and over.
I guess seen it before.
He was a movie director,
he had that gal killed.
on the set or something.
That was pretty good though .
it was.
I like COLOMBO probably the best of any of those mystery things.
there's never anything good on Saturdays, though .
No kidding.
I don't think so.
STAR TREK'S on at five,
I'm never home
What is it that,
there's on Saturdays,
I can't remember what it is.
I used to watch TWIN PEAKS.
You never saw that?
I've heard of it a lot,
I've heard of,
a lot of people somehow or something .
They'll say, so and so from TWIN PEAKS, or something,
that was a different soap opera.
a different type of show.
I didn't like the way it ended, though.
did they end the whole series?
it for, I think, two years.
it's all over now.
another show I like to watch is MASH.
How's your products been?
I really haven't had, too many problems.
seems to me that everything that I buy goes bad just after the warranty runs out.
I hear that one.
Have you had any lately go out?
I've had a dryer, an ice maker, a microwave, all three,
unfortunately I bought them all three at the same time, when I bought my new house,
I really don't have any recourse,
I had to call and have them all repaired and that.
it was a hassle.
you didn't get anything,
even, warranties were out?
the warranty on the refrigerator,
the i ,
the refrigerator warranty's still good,
the ice maker itself, passed it's three years,
it was three years and two months.
You're kidding.
we just moved into a new house, too,
we had to buy all those, too.
watch out.
the only thing I've had problems with is,
I buy a lot of wood working equipment through the mail
I bought this paint stripper where they advertise that it's nontoxic and such,
when you get the product it ends up being toxic and all these warnings.
I didn't return it because it'd probably cost me more than,
I just ended up using it.
that's about the only thing I've had gone wrong.
I usually have pretty good luck with appliances,
I just,
it was within two days that all three of these stopped working,
That's incredible.
the ice maker to have a new pump,
the, microwave had to have, some kind of something I can't even pronounce,
the dryer had to have a new heating element,
it was three hundred dollars for all three of them.
they all went out at the same time?
within two days of each other.
two days.
I was,
it wasn't a good week.
I was pretty mad.
the place that I'd bought them all had gone out of business,
kept the warranty, the service agreements were with the companies manufactured,
still they were through that retailer,
I don't know if I could have taken it to another retailer or not.
it's frustrating.
I didn't have to worry about all that, because they weren't under warranty.
It was a call to the local appliance dealer
who came out and fixed them all,
the only other things that I've ever had trouble with,
I seem to have a real bad trouble with electric hair dryers, blow dryers.
they go out a lot?
I've had two or three of those go out.
One was under warranty,
the other two weren't,
I just,
other than that, T V s and things like that, I haven't ever had any trouble with.
I don't think products are getting much better though.
I'm in the manufacturing (( ))
home from work
make, automotive air bags, the safety air bags.
That's interesting.
At Morton International,
I thin ,
changed a lot with the manufacturing environment.
We test everything after each assembly process,
our testing is pretty thorough,
test each individual one
do you just test,
if you've got ten, you test one,
by the test results of the one you assume that the other nine are okay?
the tests that,
we test every one electrically.
We don't,
I think they test four or five a day, actually exploding the air bags
we do test during the assembly after we assemble each part of the inflator or what explodes the bag, we check to make sure it's there after we install it,
each assembly process has an inspection right after it's done,
we do electrical tests on them during the process,
that's something I've never had to use,
been involved in an automobile accident,
luckily that's a product that I haven't had to test.
I think it's a great idea.
seems like all the good logical ideas take forever to come about
they do testing that we have to do through the government,
it's incredible how much testing they have to do.
I'm sure they want to be thorough before they.
I don't mind spending the extra money on the car
they pass onto the consumer, because it just seems like a real worthwhile thing.
I'm not a real big seat belt,
Jackie, on taxes, guess I would have to say, opinion is that I do think American's are paying too much in taxes.
what's your feeling about that?
I agree.
I think taxes are high.
where you live do you have a state income tax and a sales tax both?
In New Hampshire we have, what we call broad base taxes.
No income tax and no sales tax.
we tax business, eight percent,
businesses are taxed eight percent
we have what we call the five B s. for our taxes. Booze, butts, cigarettes, beds, hotel room tax
bellies, a meal tax and bets, gambling.
we do have a very low tax rate,
combined with the federal income tax. I think that American's generally do pay too much in taxes
(( )) .
I, (( )) think it's about the time of the year when you just start getting,
if you do get money back from jobs,
I'm still a student
huh .
I only work part time,
get a check back
that's nice.
to get a refund.
Yeah .
It is,
it's not much.
Do you think that, for whatever taxes we do pay that, we are getting value for it?
opinion of taxes is that we just send money to Washington or to the state
they say they are going to send some back,
You know what I mean?
I should say one arm giving another arm a transfusion through a leaky tube because,
There you go .
because, there's an old saying in amongst taxes and politicians that there's a fly paper effect
that is that money tends to stick where it lands first
when you send it to Washington or send it to your state capitol, a lot of it stays there and not that much comes back to you.
I don't know.
don't seem like they are doing much with it,
(( )) there's plans there
now that they are voting and people, getting into (( )) drug and that stuff.
They have nice plans
they don't always work
they try to raise taxes more
I don't what happens with all the money because if their plans don't work,
taxes get raise
I don't know.
I'm not really into politics,
That it,
I don't really understand it
it's just ,
seem that the more taxes that are raised the more the politicians spend.
it's almost like they will spend as much as they're allowed to collect.
there is an interesting proposal that's been going around now for a few years of having a flat tax. ten percent or thirteen percent.
There would be no figuring.
you would take your income tax,
you would have a certain amount,
you would take you total salary
those who made under a certain amount wouldn't owe any taxes,
there would be a set amount for however many you have,
you would just pay a flat tax. No exemptions, no deductions or anything else you figure up who's in your family.
that would eliminate a lot of the bureaucracy in the I R S
it would eliminate all these loop holes that the fat cats get away with.
The could be nice .
like to see something like that.
I think it would be fairer
it would put lot of the tax attorneys our of business
I am sure they will fight it tooth and nail,
I really think a flat tax would be a lot fairer for all Americans.
it doesn't seem right that somebody that makes twenty five or thirty thousand dollars pays four or five thousand dollars in taxes while somebody that makes two hundred and fifty thousand dollars might pay nothing in taxes.
It doesn't seem fair to me.
it isn't,
there is not much out there that is fair,
that's for sure.
I will agree to that.
I think your taxes in Wisconsin are pretty high. if I am not mistaken, aren't they? E I
mean for your state.
your state income tax rate is?
Twenty percent?
have no idea,
I just.
My dad does it all for me .
pay it, .
I use,
my daughter who is in college down in Massachusetts
she works as a waitress
she is attending college full time also
she sends her taxes to me
I figure them up.
She really has no idea.
She gets a refund check
How do you keep up with current events?
usually, in the mornings I am getting ready to either go to work,
usually catch the news in the morning.
what what channel do you watch or what station?
N B C.
That's the one I watch.
I usually keep up with T V.
I don't,
I am a student
I really don't have much time to read the newspapers and stuff
I get a lot of stuff through the grapevine which
too great sometimes .
I usually tend to just, rely on, T V, again, just through the grapevine to know what today's stories are
I usually go out an buy a newspaper if I'm interested in any particular one.
The radio doesn't really have much news sometimes.
The stations I listen to are just mainly music.
I think you pretty much have to listen to all news station to get any news at all.
Do you think that T V is, pretty accurate.
sometimes do you think it gets pretty commercialized
what I really don't like about T V, especially local news as compared to national news is just, like everything is very spoon feed
more like the news shows an entertainment show like a sitcom
or like the news, because they would always have the wonderful investigative reports, is you're kids bus driver smoking crack,
on the way to school,
they mainly go with popular topics
just not basic news.
I have the observation the press that, stories that I had any first hand knowledge of that I see in the press, which only happened ten times in my life
first thing for anything that actually more than just a blurb about it. the press has managed to just mess up some aspect of the story
it's something wrong.
going more for ratings than for
actual news.
I think, best source of just plain journalism would be newspapers
they typically have a better.
I am from a small town too here in Texas
that local news is really who grew the biggest tomato
the farm report.
farm report and oil reports.
That's sad
or who killed who.
Also I have found that newspapers probably aren't as bad as television (( )) .
Read the story and just found it so incredibly watered down
Dallas, I don't know if you heard about the killing where the guy drove into Luby's
the story was,
Was that he started shooting in this cafeteria or something?
the news covered it
hours after it happened
they were taping people who were crying who
had everything
like three days later this, local news station was using as as their promo
to promote themselves.
I just thought kind of cold,
I have seen that happen lots of times.
Channel X gives you the best coverage
we were on the scene with our team players
it was just,
they were showing these dead people
huh .
they were showing people crying
huh .
just taking advantage of
(( )) .
They are trying to get the, most emotional response for,
it didn't seem like there was much coverage of the story,
just the play on people's emotions .
It's just gotten so,
somewhere it's lost a lot of the quality that they use to have like in Walter Cronkite that if
Yeah .
I've pretty much stopped watching local news totally
even the national news I just find it to be
very watered down,
What did you think of the coverage of the war?
it very one sided.
Did you?
just seemed to lack any sort of debate.
not saying have been there or shouldn't have been there,
it just seemed like,
They kept just showing, how great we were doing
it never really showed what actually
the damage that really happened that's
a lot of times the news coverage showed all guys who didn't get hurt coming home and all the big parties
they kind of
if they were going to show that why didn't they show the guys who
got really hurt and everything.
I really think that in the involvement that the press states, military basically sets the press,
Think about, taxes.
I think they're a necessary evil.
I wish the government would operate on the same premise that, businesses operate on
that is,
You spend what you have
don't spend more bring in.
I think that, the general idea is to during a time of recession for the deficit spending to help pick up the economy,
they're running under the assump ,
the way they're running it now, they're running (( it under )) a deficit spending, while we're not under a recession,
there's never any surplus coming in to counter the deficit that we're running,
that's kind of a basic thing of economics, I guess, keep spending, keep going into debt,
you're not going to payoff what you owe,
I guess question was more like, do you
it just depends.
roads are very expensive, commodity and so is, utilities they supply and police and fire department,
they need to make a living.
, I think for many years, we've paid teachers and police officers and firemen who are, to a great extent, public servants
we have not paid them really what they're worth in what they contribute to society.
I agree with that.
then again, it's hard to justify with all the wastefulness of money that the government spends on all levels government, including municipalities as well as state and federal governments.
I guess,
a student right now
I don't make a whole lot of money
kind of don't pay a proportionate amount of taxes I guess, compared to what I get, because all education is state sponsored.
I go to a state sponsored school
my education all up through high school and stuff,
I guess I'm kind of in debt, suppose, because I don't, been paying taxes long.
My parents, I guess, however, have contributed to that, for the education side of it and everything,
I usually end up getting money back.
I will this year anyway from a,
you're very fortunate.
I am .
I need it, too,
We just try not to pay any more in than we have to,
we pay in a substantial amount.
We don't regret paying taxes.
We do think that, sometimes, we have a reverse of a regressive tax, a progressive tax.
progressive tax, I think, does not give people incentive to make more money,
what I mean by that, the more income you make, the more tax you pay.
More taxes you pay.
It should be, I think, a flat percentage
that percentage ought to be an equitable amount.
last year when they passed the tax laws for the, nineteen ninety, ninety one, whatever, nineteen ninety one
I added up all the taxes that we were going to pay on all these different specific luxury items and travel expenses and
everything else,
I totaled them all up
basically, we were going to be paying seventy or eighty percent tax.
that was the assumption that you spent that same dollar item on there
even though there's, taxes on different things.
a lot of taxes you pay that you're not even aware of that you're paying,
like when you buy a tire, you pay a federal excise tax.
there's a of hidden taxes.
You pay gasoline taxes every time you pump something into
The taxes that people don't think about that,
the income tax is a lot more visible portion of the taxes you pay, I guess.
you probably pay more percentage wise in other taxes.
There was that,
which can ,
was it Jerry Brown,
one of the democratic candidates had a proposal for doing away with all tax codes they have now and implementing percentage, something like that.
Yeah ,
if you a flat percentage, it would encourage people, to make more money
what people need to understand in my opinion, is that businesses create jobs and jobs create income and income pays taxes.
if they penalize businesses, business people are smart enough to say, here's my break point, I'm not going to work any harder
and make any more or create any more jobs.
That's, because
until, eight,
Based on that, who do you think you're talking to,
you're talking to an employer.
Up until, eighty five or something was the,
don't think I'm in the, majority Texas
I don't think I agree with,
You don't believe in it?
I wouldn't say that.
I think I would have said that a few years ago.
When I was younger I thought it was, a sign of a civilized society if you didn't have, capital punishment
maybe slowly changing my opinion.
I'm not thoroughly opposed to it.
I still think it's sort of true that a more civilized society wouldn't have to use capital punishment
I'm beginning to believe this is less civilized society than I thought .
You sound a lot like a friend of mine. A
a girl I hang out with.
She has black and white opinions,
There's no gray in her opinions,
probably would agree more with you
I don't know.
I think I would rather a person go ahead and be put down than give them the opportunity to get out and do it again.
I've never had punishment or crime like a murder touch my immediate family
I still feel very strongly that capital punishment is a good way punish, especially criminals who seem to have absolutely no remorse for what they've done.
we see that more and more.
in our state right now, there's a fourteen year old boy who raped and then killed a seven year old girl
that's fourteen years old.
What's he going to be doing when he turns into an adult.
I certainly don't, advocate turning people like that loose.
I'm not sure executing them, does anymore than keeping them in jail,
it doesn't
it costs less.
a factor.
to me it is.
I work and I pay my taxes
I lived out in Texas for a little while
that's a pretty heavy state compared to Georgia .
you guys a lot more, for to each his own even than we are in Georgia.
even in Georgia that's the attitude for the most part.
If I work and pay my dues
you work and pay your dues and we'd get along just fine.
when I've got to work to pay my dues and your dues
then I don't like you very much anymore.
the cost is something
relatively unimportant compared to what's the most effective way of,
dealing with crime
I guess I would like,
I don't know,
the European countries certainly, none of them have capital punishment
they don't have a crime problem either.
you can't,
they don't execute anybody in Britain or France
I don't believe they do in Germany or Italy either
they don't have the crime problems we do.
I don't really think that there is too much of a relationship between the two.
I guess what worries me about capital punishment is, when I see people enthusiastic about it and, sort of bloodthirsty. I think it brings out the worst people who do the punishing
bothers me.
You might be right.
hate to be the person to pull the switch,
I would never in a million years want that job
I do believe it's necessary
On the one hand guess I admire the person who has the guts to do it because I couldn't
I couldn't stand behind a gun and shoot somebody for nothing
I couldn't pull the switch
I, wha ,
the other thing that bothers me is when it becomes a political issue because a very important aspect of fighting crime or law and order or anything else.
I think it just becomes a, symbolic I'm tougher than you are type of emotional issue for politicians
I would like for it to be settled once for all and, get in the background while the more important issues get discussed,
(( Like I said, )) some years ago, I think I would have said there's no place for capital punishment in the,
civilized western country.
Now not so sure of that.
I wouldn't vote against somebody just because it was for capital punishment and
nor the other way around.
what's making you become more convinced that it might be a good way of punishing ?
I guess
my view of ,
I'm beginning to believe that some people are simply not rehabilitatable and, that,
costs and other factors justify, executing people.
Maybe it's more a symbolic gesture than anything else
I've also never been a victim although friends whose wives were murdered
gosh .
I can imagine that, for some people it would be the only form of justice in that case.
if it ever touched my fam ,
I don't know what you drive now.
what do you drive now?
I have a Ford pickup
the family car is Dodge Caravan.
we have three kids and they're under thirteen
Throw them in the back.
they sort of fit our requirement.
I have one of those, pickups with the, seat
with a seat in the back.
they just fit in there.
When they get to be teenagers with long legs, it may not work.
Yeah .
throw them all in the back when we have room
There you go.
since I do a lot of projects, I throw things in the back
I kind of like having a pickup truck.
yo ,
I think of it car that'll last .
I know.
I like the way trucks are built
I don't care about comfort.
I'm pretty happy.
you're looking at,
I got a Toyota Four Runner.
I wanted a truck that wanted something that I could throw people in the back too,
I got a Four Runner.
I wouldn't hesitate to get another one.
never buy new
I wouldn't hesitate to get another used truck.
You're just like me.
I've never bought a new vehicle in my life.
need to pay for the glitz.
let somebody else, have the showroom shine
(( )) I'll pay for the rest of it.
Let somebody else break it in,
right .
the van we're sor ,
we might go again van.
could probably do with something just a little bit larger than a compact in a sedan next time.
I'm not sure.
have to face it in a couple of years
guess, we had a small Toyota wagon
we were real happy with that because, second requirement after price is, low maintenance.
it certainly had that.
We didn't do much to it at all.
(( ))
pretty much the same.
got one of those Toyota Four Runners
it pretty much does everything I need it to.
tow three thousand pounds
I can tow everything
I can throw,
I've had eleven people in it before .
Believe it or not.
it's real reliable,
belie ,
I've had it for almost four years now
up until, say two weeks ago, it had never had anything wrong with it.
of course, two weeks ago,
it decided,
I don't know,
it's the strangest, weirdest thing in the world,
it blew a head gasket.
Didn't do any damage to it.
I caught
at how
it real early.
at how many miles?
ninety seven
it's not real early .
You didn't overheat it?
Never overheated it.
I smelled the coolant .
Went out and looked.
coming from.
Drove it right to the shop and left it off.
that was, (( )) ,
that was it
I have Kawasaki motorcycle.
Which is, usually my preferred mode of transportation if I can take it and it's not raining.
sort of my,
hobby though more than a vehicle.
a ,
I don't know,
people who buy motorcycles for transportation I think are kidding themselves .
I have one colleague that, commutes to work on one when it's not raining
he's a,
he's pretty conservative guy.
I don't think it's much of a sport for him. I guess,
I know
I bet you he really enjoys riding it.
I'm sure he does,
yo ,
h ,
when was the last time you go driving?
No .
I go out twice a week on the bike,
At least. Just for
(( )) .
the enjoyment.
Yeah .
the only thing I think I might get, but, car,
I would consider going to a normal pickup rather than covered pickup like the one I've got. Just because there's a lot of times I wished I had, an open bed to throw stuff in.
(( )) .
that that's very,
you got one.
really convenient to be able to throw that sort of stuff in the back
If I only had some place that I could store the, camper top, I would have it off most of the time.
I really leave it on there just just to have it out of the way because you put it on the ground it gets dirty.
To have it out of the way.
they're solid.
trucks are built,
I think they last a lot longer than anything else.
They're the only things Americans still know how to build
the trucks do.
even though, trucks good there too.
so are the,
though I think the Chevies,
I don't think the Che ,
I don't like the Chevies as much as I like the Fords.
tend to last a little longer.
At least until recently .
I kind of like mine,
mine's a Ford .
A friend of mine just a year ago. a really nice truck.
I don't like Dodges at all
one of the Dodges they have out now has Cummins turbo diesel on it.
I heard about that,
it's beautiful.
will last forever (( )) ,
a serious truck.
that thing's,
it's got a boat engine in it .
know a contractor who just got one of those.
He's pleased with it.
I haven't had an awful lot of, incidents regarding child care.
When my two year old was in New Orleans, she got bit on the cheek
that's about the extent of it.
I really am concerned that, so many of these child care places coming under, investigation child molestation.
I'm saying to myself, dump your little turnip off to, this child care place
they don't pay very much
why would they be interested your little turnip unless, one of the motivations in the hidden agenda is that's somebody to molest,
that's a terrible kind of thing
I don't think my children have ever been subject to that
my wife didn't work
we really didn't have that much exposure to it.
I am a working mother .
I have three children
my children, they were very young,
I've had various, different alternatives, child care arrangements
like most working mothers I'm really not defensive about it.
I personally feel, in our particular situation, I'm a much better mother when I work out of the home
my kids, I think, are secure, well raised children.
My comment on this is that we paid an absolute fortune
over the years for a variety of opportunities.
I, e ,
it is a problem.
as you pointed out, think the real problem is the low pay child facilities
that is sometimes what some women who have to work, that is all they can afford.
When our children were very young, we had baby sitter that
was wonderful.
as they got older, they went to, I preferred to call them schools
they were really all day preschools
they were wonderful.
I think they got exposed to a lot of neat things.
that's interesting.
pay a fortune.
we were paying at one point, close, about five hundred dollars a week for two children.
my God.
you must have just one hero ace professional job to support something like that.
I mus ,
I'm a physician.
yeah .
as is my husband.
I felt, very good about working.
I'm a pediatrician
I think there are some wonderful child care opportunities out there for children
we all know the kind of things that you're supposed to look for. I think,
all of us.
what the kind of things you're supposed to look for.
I'm an engineer.
I think it's real important that you have a place that, first of all parents have a lot of input into and that they're always welcome and that they have a lot of activities where parents come in during the day and that at any time you can drop in.
we had a really wonderful arrangement,
I'm with the university
they had a wonderful, program that started at age three
it was about a block away from the hospital where I work.
many times, at lunchtime, I would go over and visit the children and eat with them and see what they were doing.
they had wonderful,
they had things like gardens and lots of pets
they had a four to one
teacher student ratio.
sort of an,
most of the teachers had degrees.
Five hundred dollars a week.
For two kids.
That's incredible.
It was incredible .
it was good.
at that time there were two children
they were in special programs
each one was a little over two hundred a week
in addition, I paid a little bit extra.
the kids were,
they really had some great opportunities.
tha ,
W ,
what you were alluding to earlier is, women who work for minimal wage
and really put their children,
sometimes they do put them in, fairly low
they could,
somebody will have a job at three hundred a week to get off welfare
that's a good starting wage
boy three hundred dollars a week doesn't go very far on child care.
even really, I think, I don't,
it's been awhile since I've looked at,
my youngest child is eight.
it's been a little while since I've looked into, daycare centers.
they are
the good ones do cost maybe sixty dollars a week since (( )) .
we used to fifty cents an hour to baby sit.
are twenty two, twenty three and twenty seven
I guess baby sitters now are up at, what, five dollars an hour?
Something like that.
you made the comment earlier, why would someone be interested in children.
it has been a real,
have been some good entrepreneurial type experiences.
they have captured a certain market.
Again the,
there are baby sitting groups.
As a pediatrician, one of the things we've been real concerned about is the infections.
As you start putting lots of little kids together, the infection rates that go around .
Hi, Cynthia.
What did you wear to work today?
let's see.
What did I wear to work today?
I wore corduroy shorts with a white blouse, and flat shoes.
can you dress pretty casually?
on occasion.
On occasion.
I do vary.
I wear suits,
I wear skirts and sweaters.
On occasion I can wear jeans.
how about you?
I, run a business out of my home.
I tend to get up in the morning, put on,
do whatever I want to do with the kids, then whenever I have a meeting with a client, I'll put a suit on.
And then come home and get back into regular clothes again .
there's dress code where I work.
you see people wearing, all different attire.
I, don't like to wear heels, that really tires me out.
I work in a big building.
I predominantly wear flat shoes.
in the winter I wear sweaters,
in summer like one piece dresses, short sleeves, things like that.
I've recently, tried to update my wardrobe, trying to put suits together that I can interchange, the,
jackets and the blouses and all that a lot.
That's helped me a lot with having,
I can only have limited wardrobe, since I'm only,
working part time right now.
still, it gives it some variety.
Add different blouses and scarves and belts and things like that.
What about your casual wear?
Do you like to wear jeans most of the time?
at home I predominantly wear sweatpants and things like that,
It's nice you can wear shorts, especially on a day like today when it's so hot.
like Ber ,
Dress shorts.
they're like black corduroy shorts.
sometimes I wear a blazer with them,
I get really a lot of compliments on them.
where I work is predominantly male.
their attire is always the same, Suits or slacks,
jeans, whatever.
(( Yeah,
)) ,
I'm really the only woman, I guess, at work that does that,
seems to work for me .
(( Yeah,
)) .
In fact, just got a new outfit as a gift that,
it's one of those skorts,
th ,
it's shorts but it looks like a skirt.
I think that'll be good for work, too.
It'll be comfortable.
I guess down here,
we just recently moved to Texas,
my wardrobe has changed quite a bit.
we moved from Colorado where,
I have a closet full of sweaters.
I live in Virginia.
You live in Virginia, now?
that's interesting.
right now, today was in about, the fifties.
do wear a lot of sweaters and things like sweater dresses.
I'd like to be able to wear those here.
Today it's eighty eight degrees.
my .
Needless to say, my sweaters have been hung in the closet for quite a while now .
Today was, definitely a shorts day around here.
we're still pretty much, in winter, as far as that goes here.
This is pretty
at least, we,
it feels good,
it gets,
everybody doesn't have cabin fever today.
It's nice to get,
out and about.
I guess we've discussed everything there is about clothing .
Sounds good.
It was nice talking to you.
it was nice talking to you, also.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
particularly, particularly what kind of music do you like?
I mostly listen to popular music.
I, listen to it all the time my car,
tend to be one of those people who switches stations a lot because I don't like commercials.
I find myself listening to popular music,
quite honestly, I, I have some little children
I, unfortunately, found myself listening to a lot of nursery rhyme music here lately,
that's not by my choice.
How about you?
, experience to share .
Lucky you.
I do listen to a lot of,
the stations a lot because I don't have a cassette player in my car.
however, I do like a lot of different forms of music
I switch quite often.
I think I like,
really particular about the type of music that I listen to.
there's such a wide selection,
different types of music.
I like music
if it is performed correctly or if it's done right, or if the version is done right, I like it ,
it's not, then I won't.
really don't,
How do you feel about rap music?
It seems to be so popular these days.
don't really have anything against rap music.
the one thing I do object to about rap music when it becomes militant,
or, if it's, violence oriented.
have strong objections to that.
I listen to,
one time I remember, this was back when, even,
I would say about ten or fifteen years ago I,
When it was really just starting.
when it was just starting,
I heard what was called talking blues,
which actually is rap.
it was about,
the piece of music was forty or fifty years old.
it was incredible, the parallel, between it and rap.
listen a lot,
hear a lot of old gospel, especially the black gospel.
really pick it up.
you really.
It seemed to be influenced by a lot of different music.
A lot of times you'll hear songs that they're not original,
but have been put to a rap kind of a rhythm.
so much different
yet, have a much younger sister who listens to a lot of rap music
she thinks its pretty funny how often I know all of the words to songs that she's listening to,
she thought they were brand new,
original pieces.
they do copy versions, they do cover versions standards, I guess you could call it.
That's right.
I think it's kind of absurd, the fact that, give, the original artist, or the original composer,
the credit that is really due to them.
I guess there was even bit of ruckus caused by the M C Hammer, who's really,
seems to be the hot one today.
He used, WILD THING.
Do you remember song.
he used,
I can't remember who the artist was on that.
Jimi Hendrix was the original.
Jimi Hendrix was the original.
He wrote ,
Was it,
it wasn't that one.
person that thinking of that,
that said, "You know, hey that, those are my words."
I guess that they hadn't originally gotten, permission,
from him to use it.
since then amended that, and paid them his royalties every time song goes on
I don't know
been somebody else, because that even Jimi Hendrix did it,
I think that was a cov ,
come to think of it, I think that was a cover version of, a John Lee Hooker song, or something,
Maybe so.
it was just like,
it was really old.
I, can't think.
different songs,
the whole thing about cover versions a lot of times. I've heard some songs I just thought were horrendous cover versions of,
I'm like, don't want to listen to this.
Because you think of the original is
that was really great.
That was really good piece of work,
when you hear the cover it's like, God, what are they doing.
They destroyed it.
think a good one was,
there was a Peter Frampton song,
the cover version,
remember seeing the video of it on M T V,
I thought it was hideous.
I did too.
It was,
ugh, I didn't like that either.
whatever became of Peter Frampton.
there was nothing,
he was a phenomenon,
there was no reason for him to really come into, great stardom or anything.
I remember, I saw him in a concert, when I was,
I think it was in high school.
I think that probably what did it for him was the fact that he was a good stage performer.
He was very good.
I remember I saw him in a huge stadium in, Philadelphia.
It was in J F K Stadium, if I can remember.
Hundreds of thousands of people is what it seemed like.
graduated back in seventy nine,
I've really,
really into the album oriented music, even then,
I was really familiar the A O R type music.
the album oriented like James Taylor,
and, Beatles,
a lot of people they go, they're better than the Beatles,
I'm like,
you don't know what you're talking about.
No .
the comparison made between New Kids On The Block with the Beatles . It was just,
You can only laugh .
you just sort of,
I guess I can just humor them, . At this point.
I guess our age is showing when, think that.
I've liked a lot of the new music.
I think,
I saw some promise, a lot of the new wave, came out,
back in the mid and early eighties.
I don't know
music position right now.
I think that,
I like, to hear, what they call world music. Which is, using all these natural forms of music
Like Paul Simon.
Paul Simon.
really that's not world music.
Paul Simon's doing, I think is great because he's, that using,
drawing from a lot of different sources and making, a synthesis of a new type of music.
What do you mean by world music?
world music is,
make music that they adapt to another type of listener.
for example, let's say you're taking an original Brazilian form of music with a certain style,
you try to make it a little bit more listenable for, let's say another audience, let's say a North American.
when they hear it, it's another form of music, and,
sort of, trying to draw out the best sources.
best of every type of music.
Because, there are some,
li ,
there are some, types of heavy metal that I really like,
say that completely like heavy metal.
it's the same way with,
world music takes the forms that have really been,
I guess, I
I guess you could say,
taking qualities, and then applying, in the styles, extremely enjoyable, and then taking,
then it becomes a kind of music it's own, so to speak,
it becomes a kind of music of it's own.
when you listen to it, it's
I think that they don't use, elec ,
some of it,
they use electronic and acoustic interchangeably,
a lot of the stuff you hear coming from South Africa now, and from West Africa, that's considered world music, because it's not particularly using certain types of folk styles.
trying to make it somewhat more modern.
example was I heard Miles Davis,
Miles Davis worked with Robbie Shoncar,
if you can believe it,
huh .
he's a jazz performer,
he's playing with Robbie Shoncar,
arrangement to,
we're going to have to get off.
are they trying to (( )) ,
I don't know.
(( )) We've talked our five minutes though.
when I heard his album, I heard it and it was just incredible.
I've been listening to that a lot lately.
I heard,
you hear this guitar,
you hear the muted trumpet.
you never would think can actually play together
I don't know,
which end do we push
let's see,
think there's a lot of people that don't vote because they don't really think opinion is going to be heard
there's such a small voice and such a huge number of people in the United States
their, votes not going to make that much difference
whether you vote for one person or the other person, the issues is you believe in,
that person is going to have a lot of,
since there's so many issues, this one person can believe a lot of different ways on,
all of them
it would be really difficult to have that one that believed exactly what you believed.
That's true,
a lot of people,
I think it ends up the people that, vote every time, elections come around are more the party type followers, the guys that, follow the party lines,
they, just go in
if they're Republican they Republican every year,
the people that are independent, are the ones that really, show up every year because they can't seem decide which are the good aspects and which are the bad aspects of a candidate.
that's good.
Ye ,
I always thought
back when Anderson was running, I was hoping that things would change and he'd actually get elected and party politics would start going down the tubes,
that didn't work.
there's, a lot of extremes on the parties, too, with real, far side of the Democrats
they're real liberal now to where probably fifty or a hundred years ago, the Democrat party being liberal like they are now, would never be thought of,
it would be the other way that the Republicans were real liberal minded as far as moral standings and those kinds of things.
people always get upset about it, too, because, every year the politicians are the ones that are usually pushing for more people to vote,
huh .
each think that, if more people vote, they'll get more votes,
Yeah .
I'm always amazed each candidate thinks it's going to be the people that come out that will vote for him,
I think in, the Texas governor elections, I think more people turned out to vote against somebody than for somebody, this time.
(( )) I know that there's certain issues that can really motivate people because we live in a predominately Catholic type area,
when things start,
abortion comes on the issues and people just get all
still on the other hand we're also,
this particular community is a Catholic community
down in D C things are a little bit different, women's rights and that sort of movement,
it's, quite the opposite,
elections start getting very,
the elections where they have that topic seem to be a little bit better attended than some of the other ones.
that's true.
that's true that the different places in America that, different issues would be a lot more important than (( in )) another place.
I can understand some of rural areas, the voter turnout isn't as much because it does seem sometimes the lobbyists in D C are controlling things for Midwest,
huh .
it doesn't matter who they put in office, they're going to fall subject to, the pressure that the lobbyists can put,
it's, real true that, they'll say one thing,
to get elected,
once they do get elected, they don't have the power or the authority or the willingness to do those things that they promised, beforehand.
maybe it just wasn't possible at all in the first place, like the no new taxes thing.
with the economy going the way it is and everything, that was nearly ridiculous
Yeah .
thing to, even try to do.
I don't think he's going to have to worry about that next year.
I think he can probably raise taxes and still get elected.
Right .
after the war.
That really,
Unfortunately that will probably even drop lower, the voters turndown, (( )) even more because more Democrats will think that they don't have a shot
they won't even bother turning out.
that's true,
They'll just say, the Republicans have this election
we'll see you in four years.
(( )) hope some of the local,
that's what keep saying that it seems like people with old fashioned values are the ones that aren't turning out booths,
say that these older voters that, feel like the kids are running country
don't come out, turn out to vote
they're the ones that, really know what's going on, have the experience and seen, how politicians can, screwup or what ever.
I know, my grandmother hasn't voted in years.
neither has mine as a matter of fact.
, that's true,
look at it as, everybody, the majority of the people think this way, when that's not necessarily true,
because, that's what the media says.
the majority believes this way
they don't even bother turning out to vote to express their, opinions.
wonder if they're going to take into account (( )) this computerized conversation that there's little children, bouncing in your knee,
the whole time your talking .
Do you hear the dogs in the background here?
I can't hear them.
the children next door just opened the fence
they went off.
I guess we've, talked long enough
Yeah .
that was sort of interesting.
What part of the country are you from?
Washington, D C,
Are you really?
This is,
this is Dallas where I'm at.
The outskirts of Dallas.
I figured (( with Texas Instruments )) they'd probably have a few, Texans on the line now and then.
you work for T I in any way?
get you?
went through engineering companies,
we're communications.
work in a communications company.
I work for T I
we saw it on the, T News one day
I thought, that might be interesting.
(( )) sort of different.
They called me at, ten o'clock one night,
that was very strange.
I guess they were doing (( )) Eastern Standard Time.
I was like,
I don't know how long it takes whether it takes five minutes or twenty minutes.
Central Standard Time is what they're doing it by.
I still haven't figured out what the zero through six days which day is which yet
I didn't study it that hard
maybe I'll figure it out.
it was nice to talk to you and, sort of meet you,
that was an interesting topic.
if your ever in, D C, come look up Wayne (( Sherman )) , you'll say yeah, talked to that guy.
Kyle Hunt,
(( )) Oh.
too, if you ever come Dallas area.
We live right by the airport.
so do we.
right next to Dulles.
I'll talk to you later .
Bye bye.
Back by that.
there are so many ramifications to this entire thing of woman,
how women have changed,
look at them,
in England,
Margaret Thatcher was prime minister, (( Indira Ghandi )) , in India,
so many, women are heads of state
we keep saying yes, we feel some day a woman will be president.
I have some question, whether or not they will ever really get around to that.
I think we'll have a black president we have a women president.
I don't know whether that's bad or good,
it's just a point that I have observed that we,
I truly believe before we have to address the issues in the United States,
before we can go anywhere.
a friend of mine traveled to (( Balise )) and, into Honduras. *
I think, supposed to hang up.
it wasn't the matter of wealth,
it was the matter that they were not wealthy,
that made them equal.
I'll talk to you later,
All right.
Thank you.
Bye, bye.
Bye bye.
what do you think about, the idea of having volunteer service for everyone?
I think that, really it wouldn't hurt most of the young people of the country to have to go and do voluntary service.
(( )) .
there have been so many people that have done it
I've talked with several
I think they've gotten a lot out of it.
are you doing any kind of volunteer work now?
Not right now,
I have done, Red work
I've taught C P R training
a ,
What about, would people do it, when they finished high school?
I think probably as soon as they finished high school it would be ideal, because a lot of times, they go straight into college I think they're going in too quick
I think particular boys that the maturity,
in fact I wasn't very mature when I left high school
I think real challenge there.
There's also issue whether you're really ready,
I think it gives a different perspective.
y ,
think if you've been out of school a and a half, before you start to college, you appreciate college more,
than someone that just goes right straight into college.
The only complication is how do you fund something like this?
a lot of parents fund their children.
There are, some groups that have their children, go away for a year.
Even the religious organizations.
I think the Mormon church out missionaries that,
the parents fund them for the whole and a half that they're gone.
It gets them away from home gets them to do something useful,
although the kids today, though, seems their concern for money,
were doing some investigating colleges and said the kids are much more interested today trying to find a job, study something that will give them a job as opposed to,
as to if,
mandatory, you could choose the option of either a mandatory military service or voluntary,
do you think that would be reasonable?
I think it would.
Israel, women required be in the military for a certain period of time.
I was in the military,
I personally feel they have that they should draft women as quickly as they do the men.
issue of, which,
what would you find, what would you have them do?
there are a lot of people around with,
there's a lot of unemployment right now.
What would you have these people do if they were brought in?
What, into the service?
the volunteer,
say that,
say that it was mandatory.
I, I think that they ought to have something for unemployed in a voluntary field like the,
I don't know if you about the W P A,
my father was in the C C C (( )) .
He was in that?
it's not the best thing in the world,
it gave them something to do.
it seems that there's some things like programs at least just go around and clean up streets and pick up trash and even aluminum cans and some of these kinds of things.
R ,
or go into more depressed areas and help repair the houses.
in fact, helped with, Help To Help Humanities,
good experience,
you take the kids out
a lot of the buildings in downtown areas need demolishing, or need fixing up,
it would be a good idea.
we've been doing this three or four minutes.
I think that,
do you have any other further comments?
not really.
it was good talking to you, Betty.
O ,
I'll talk to you later.
Have a good night.
Mainly I read the Bible these days.
That's very good.
I do, too.
Good, that's great to hear.
Christian literature.
I've kind of,
I used to read a lot of, novels,
it seems as though if you really want to set side time to read the Bible and you work and
and whatever, that pretty well takes up your time for reading.
it does.
been praying that God would put a desire to read the Bible in my heart
he really has.
It's getting,
That's good.
to where a just really want to read it.
That's good.
it's, it's hard for me to find time, also, to read.
a lot of times I do just read magazines and stuff like that because I don't have a lot of time,
when I do get to sit down read, I like to read the Bible
I like to read,
I read to my daughter a lot, too.
Do you?
I like to read, Bi ,
I have Bible storybooks
I like reading those to her
she really enjoys those.
that's good.
kind of short because we don't have a lot of time,
it's real enjoyable.
For both of us.
Have you ever read any of Frank E Peretti's?
Frank E
, no
I guess I haven't.
THIS PRESENT DARKNESS and, I forget the other,
also written a lot of children,
how old is your daughter.
he's written some children's books as well
they're all spiritually,
What's his name again?
Peretti ,
Frank E Peretti,
Frank E Peretti .
P E R E T T I.
I have to look for those.
I love to read children's books just ,
Just to read them.
that's good.
they're good,
they're great.
That's good.
it's usually about a family of, archaeologists
and the spiritual fights that they get into,
Oh .
digging in old ruins,
and running across, the old gods and things.
that sounds pretty neat.
it is.
It's real exciting.
I'll have to look for those.
it also teaches them spiritual warfare
that's neat.
have a,
my daughter has PRECIOUS MOMENTS collection
I like that because real easy to, follow for her,
I read straight out of the Bible to her she'd never understand any of it.
it's hard for me.
That's right .
real hard follow and understand,
I've got a Bible that, has a little bit of glossary in the back
it helps explain who people are.
about the hardest thing is, who's related to who .
I know it,
especially it's hard to keep your interest
in those begats.
it sure is,
it is good reading
it's good for us,
that's right.
I really do enjoy it.
I also,
then on the other extreme I like to read, Steven King type books.
I've read a lot of his, too.
like that,
that's good fun reading.
Can't put them down.
you can't,
you really can't.
They are good
so suspenseful.
I really do enjoy his.
there's another guy.
what can,
what is his name .
durn ,
you would,
when you're recording you can't
I know .
Dean, Kratz, or Kranz
Judith Krantz?
Y ,
Judith Krantz.
I know her.
it's a guy.
writes the same thing, though.
It's that real,
gruesome ,
horror stories.
That's good.
his last name ends in a Z, I know that.
I think I know who you're talking about.
I've seen,
I don't think I can pronounce it either,
I'm in a book club
I think I've seen his books
in there .
I've never read any of his.
they're real,
I kind of got burnt out on Steven King, though.
It seems like it's all the ,
did you ever read the,
it's one of his first books, THE STAND.
long thing.
I know it.
that seems like all of his books have kind of come from that,
they do kind of follow or,
Are similar.
I love that book, though.
I thought it was great.
it really was,
I loved THE SHINING.
yes .
my favorite.
those hedges when they started moving.
Whenever made that into a movie, I was thinking my gosh if they show that,
I'll just die.
For some reason that scared me more than anything.
that is,
he just brings stuff alive,
You could just visualize everything.
that was a pretty scary movie, too.
I think they did a pretty good job,
Yeah .
they didn't follow it exactly,
they did justice.
That's right.
most of the time they don't follow books very well when they make them into movies .
that's true.
I liked IT as well.
I did, too.
another big fat one.
that was good.
Did you read that one?
except it broke my heart.
I'm a dog lover.
Me, too .
NIGHT STAND,
is that NIGHT,
it was,
That's one I liked.
DEAD ZONE.
That was a,
I've read that one, too.
That was a real good one.
He's written a lot of books.
Boy, he just sits down eight hours a day.
I know it.
Just like any other job.
he has some under, another name.
That's right.
That he's written.
That one about the Gypsies, or that,
s ,
I think his name was Bachman.
He wrote under the name of Bachman.
Richard Bachman.
He is really interesting.
he's so prolific.
Yeah .
I wish I could do that .
I know it.
I have gone back
after graduated, I read some of the old classics that I just bluffed my way through
and have found that I enjoy them quite a bit, too,
I do, too.
I love
Once you can get into the language,
the l ,
Yeah .
it's not the same English they speak today.
it's kind of hard to keep, at it,
That's true,
their worthwhile.
was one of my favorite subjects in school was,
me, too.
I used to love those old books.
I didn't mind doing that at all .
Nathaniel Hawthorne is pretty scary himself.
I liked,
why can't I think of their names,
, shoot,
the one that wrote, WUTHERING HEIGHTS.
wasn't that Jane Ehre? *
that was another one.
he wrote JANE EHRE, too . *
you know who I'm talking about .
those are good old
good old books and classics,
that's right.
Sure is neat .
That's why I like to watch that MASTERPIECE THEATRE on channel thirteen,
because they'll take a classic televise it
put it into a viewing format,
more or less.
A lot of people just don't have time to read nowadays.
I know really hard for me.
I work two jobs and
Do you?
have my daughter and teach Sunday school and go to school, myself,
hard for me to
I can imagine.
sit down and read,
when I do I love it.
me, too.
I think we've accomplished five minutes
I think we have, too.
Thank you very much.
It's good talking to you.
You, too.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
what is your view, do you consider the Soviet Union a threat?
I don't know that it's so much a military threat anymore as a,
, real confusing right now to know what kind of a threat it is, I guess,
takes awhile get used to something,
they have completely chain ,
the, place has completely turned that much around to where they're what they used to be,
hard know anymore if it's threat one way or another because, it used to be so, much in the past that whatever the top said the rest fell, rank and file in behind it.
now that with Gorbachev is introducing more, I guess, it doesn't look as though, everybody's following the same pattern.
the people who are, the staunch military conservative people,
you never know, Gorbachev's future is like whereas,
whereas in the past it was seen as, whoever was the head of communist party was seen as, untouchable.
I thi ,
the thing that keeps happening is happening so fast and so, dramatic that you almost think, now wait a minute, we're getting stuck into something here,
if somebody's about clobber you, the first thing they do is sort of say, ashamed, we're not going to do that anymore.
, like to think that that isn't true
the evidence is that, let stuff go, the east German situation.
It's just the whole thing is so incomprehensible,
if I'd have been asleep for five years,
and read it in a book, I said, no, that have happened that way.
it's amazing just because of the drain that's been on, both economies that our economy of course, been able to, withstand that a little better,
the Russian economy
I don't know what the percentages are,
I heard it one time,
it's just some ungodly number just to support the military machine.
finally, who knows
maybe they're finally waking up saying, we can't afford this.
the U S isn't the threat that we've always made them out to be,
even if they're saying that beneath the doors.
it's hard to thing that just one person can bring that much of a radical change in that short of period.
Even if it is, the best thing in the long run, it just steps on too many people's toes,
who are comfortable with the way the situation is.
think, what I'd have to,
I guess to answer the question directly, I'm still just little bit, leery of the whole thing.
What I haven't seen is a great stepping back in the military,
one thing, to let us go ahead and sort of disarm
I even had a thought once that the whole Iraqi thing might have been just deal to go ahead and let us,
expend military hardware.
Of course, it didn't turn out that way.
may have been a kind of far out way of thinking about it I don't know.
it's interesting, anymore the world's getting so small that it doesn't seem to tolerate anymore any kind of the expansionism,
philosophy was here
twenty years ago.
of course, the people who have challenged that or tried to do, not been world powers.
it's easier for us to say, to an Iraq,
you can't do this, get back, or we're going to force you.
we can do something about it.
Whereas, if the Soviet Union would have, who knows what taking over Mongolia something like that, will we have been more just rhetoric,
rather than going in there officially or,
physically and try remove them.
China situation, the when, it looked like that thing turning around
all of a sudden it was like somebody Red Square or wherever said, okay,
that's enough.
the tanks came in and,
pretty much took care of that.
(( )) personally I don't see as Gorbachev as being maybe a threat,
I think he's actually, honestly trying to do some change.
I don't believe that he, in this first pass around, being the first one to really turn things around or attempt to is going to be allowed to get away with it either.
this would be like if somebody was elected president of the United States and suddenly took off toward, just some pretty hard by the socialism,
social structure of the Soviet Union, it's coming apart at the seams.
I've heard people say, it's just like the American Civil War, will there be a union or not?
it's not the same sort of a thing at all because that, the whole Soviet system was put together under total force,
there was no,
we are seeing now with a lot of those,
areas wanting out of it,
they, nobody vo ,
a lot
(( man )) , those people didn't vote to become part of the Soviet Union,
they had no choice.
that was always kind of interesting,
a lot of my friends have taken us down, the stance of, these people are just trying to be free and trying to get away
I'm thinking more of it from a nationalistic,
if I'm a Soviet and if part of, south, let's say South Dakota wanted to am I going to stand for that.
I realize that the origins different and that we all joined under a common direction and a common bond to begin with,
and that they may have been forced, I'm not that familiar with their future,
it's easy to believe that they were probably more forced into a pact than, a volunteer or willingness to join.
was the whole thing was put together, by force.
real question about that.
some of the countries that were forced in at later dates is the three Baltic countries, came the forties,
not that they came in, it's they were conquered by the Germans,
the Russians even,
just never given back.
took it back from the Germans and never bothered to give it back,
That's a,
that whole a,
a little different situation.
the whole if you look at the Russian history is, the only way to truly protect your borders was to have a buffer.
that was the whole idea why they had so many buffers
maybe, more and more people are seeing, countries hopefully are seeing that that buffer isn't going to help you,
you can,
I guess
with, Israel is a perfect example.
The reason they have the (( Angolan Heights )) and all their buffer area is between Jordan and Sinai Lebanon was just as a buffer
as you can see with scuds go right over there.
they don't really pay a whole lot of attention to buffers.
very little binds you anymore in today's technology.
I knew a lot of guys in the service when they were sent to Germany they said that's the safest place in the world because if a war starts, all the bombs are going to go right over Germany
they're going to land in other places,
that's going to be the safest place to be.
That's probably very true.
Ve ,
that's very interesting, never thought of that.
guess, what they'd have to do to,
I really don't know,
the, I hope that what's happening is exactly the way it appears.
some reason or other, is, it's kind of a strange thing we've been trying to make something like this happen for so long that when it finally happens you say,
Nobody knows what to do.
whoa, wait a minute,
Is it real?
what's, what's really happening here.
you wonder how, this thing,
was it Boris Yeltsin, evidently was elected president of the Soviet,
for the Russian republic,
which is, I guess, the, the biggest,
I get confused between which is the Soviet provinces versus which are Russian provinces,
versus what are,
in the center
you got the great big area that's was traditionally known as Russia
all these little nationality groups,
around it, was there nineteen of them whatever,
these were all the Soviet economists, (( )) they had some real fancy names for them.
Matter of fact when the,
what I read when the, United Nations was setup San Francisco, one of the first things the Russians wanted to do was bring in each one republics,
as a,
as a separate country,
as a vote.
rather than one.
the United States said, that mean we get to bring in forty eight,
that sort of,
they backed down on that.
Died down on that.
I thought it was interesting that recently here the Warsaw Pact no longer exists as a military force,
it's merely an economic now.
wonder if that ,
(( at )) ,
wh , w ,
what do you get shot by something that's called economic force or what is called a military pact,
it's all,
you can change the name of something
I wonder if it's still, exists.
Although, I've seen some evidence that, the, the Russian soldiers are,
the funny thing there is they're not particularly welcome back home because they're having housing shortages now.
What do you do with all these troops that have been taken care of by, Bulgaria and,
all the,
and Czechoslovakia
now all of a sudden they're going home
somebody's got to pay for their,
that's what they're saying the whole problem, with, if we were to demilitarize Europe,
, what are we going to do with all the soldiers over there?
that's not,
What's going to happen to the economies that are no longer have million plus people in the indu ,
in each country from the U S ...
since you live close, I don't know if you know, about what Louisville is doing with recycling,
are you familiar with any of that?
I know that we have some relatives that live around, the (( )) area in there,
I know they're doing some curbside recycling as a kind of a test there.
I read,
when they first started doing that in the paper, I read about that,
I was just praying that, that would be in our area, because we've been recycling for quite some time.
we separate everything out, and then have to haul it up to a (( Metco )) ,
which is a real pain.
if they would come up,
they'll help you,
curbside recycling,
recycle, because there is some bins, behind Wal Mart, that take some things.
have they moved them behind Wal Mart?
I finally asked because, we had all of those milk cartons
there was nowhere else to take them
they had it in front of Wal Mart
I ask in Wal Mart
they said they moved it just behind.
That's really nice to know, because we were doing the same thing.
Because to take it to a (( Metco )) , you have to take it when they're open,
which is always a real pain.
when that thing came up in Wal Mart parking lot, we thought, this is great.
we started taking them up there.
all the sudden, it disappeared, .
I didn't know.
we're going, no, there goes our recycling place.
That's really nice to find out that it's behind there .
we pretty much do, plastic milk cartons and, newspapers.
I couldn't even think of what you call them.
Plastic milk cartons, newspapers and cans, and glass, I guess, things that we do.
aluminum cans?
That's about what we do too.
Is there else that really takes anything other than that, that you know of?
I guess, down North Dallas, there is a place that will take almost anything.
have the room to store all that much,
I know.
I don't want to be running down there every week,
I know.
I know.
or whatever.
We're kind of the same way.
at first, you,
at first hassle,
I'm wondering are we really going to do this,
you kind of get, I guess, into a little routine, where it automatic, to throw,
different things in different places,
I just go,
we have a pretty good size pantry in our kitchen
I've just got three trash cans sitting in there,
we just kind of dump things in each one, if,
if we get them,
Those milk cartons take up so much room.
they do, too.
they're impossible to crush.
you can't get the down to any size,
If you get four milk cartons and that fills up trash bag, pretty easily,
I guess we kind of started recycling after I moved here about a year and a half ago.
We were using baby food
there was so many baby food jars,
kind of what started it.
Some of our neighbors were doing it
when I found out some places to take it,
they also take some things at the Flower Mound dump behind the fire station there,
I know that they're going to use, the money for that to build some kind of multipurpose field and that type of thing.
that will be good.
(( Put lights )) and stuff
if I'm not going to get the money for aluminum, I would just assume give it to the city of Flower Mound.
to do something with,
Let somebody get something out of it.
That's true.
they won't raise our taxes.
Yeah .
(( Yeah )) .
Ha ha .
I was kind of hoping with,
do you work for T I?
I don't.
I have a friend,
of mine told me about this program, is the reason that I'm,
There was a,
T I has got this organization called T A D which is T I'ers Against Drugs.
we're recycling aluminum cans up here just what you would buy out of the machines and drink here
there was crushers out in all of the hallways
they use the money from that to fund this T I'ers Against Drugs Program.
T I doesn't give them any money, everything is made from that.
they had talked about having a thing like, one Saturday a month, you could come and drop your aluminum cans off from home,
I'm kind of like, yeah.
I shall,
they would do that because at least somebody was getting the money out of it, That was going to use it for good,
. Sorry.
Sounds like you have a little one just like I do .
She'll be two in July.
Mine was two in December .
it was good to talk to you.
it was nice to talk to you.
I know they've started over in Richardson where my dad lives.
They pick up newspapers, I think.
do they really.
Curbside pick up?
I really hope they do that in Louisville.
It would make it a lot easier on all of us.
(( )) .
Talk to you later.
Bye bye.
what do you think about it?
How are we doing in recycling?
Are we,
I think we need to do more.
I know I need to do more.
They have programs around where you can reach the,
they come and pick up your newspapers if you have them bundled up.
I have a hard time of separating my trash,
get all the
cans from the paper,
I just haven't gotten that dedicated yet .
I do a lot of work with the boy scouts,
we try to do a lot
there's still a lot more we can do.
I don't recycle my newspapers myself,
I noticed in one of the sales catalogs this weekend they have a clothes hamper kind of thing that, you lay your string in, then you put your papers in there
tie them all up and bundle them up,
I figured I might get me one of those
because we don't always read the newspaper.
Sometimes it just sits around for a while,
we just chuck it.
get the paper every day,
I get it on,
I try to buy, the early edition for the coupons, the Sunday edition.
then I just, bundle it up and put it on walk ev ,
every Monday or every other Monday, and have them pick that up,
that's the extent of what I've done.
I'd like to be able to do more.
The problem is, with a lot of it is, it takes a while to drive to these places where you recycle it,
it's not always convenient to do it.
here in Lubbock everything's so close.
I can imagine what it's like up there.
I'm not exactly sure where can thing is,
sometimes it's just so,
seems so much easier just to take it and throw it in the trash, and have
them pick it up than it is to smash the cans and drive it some place to have them.
I went out to Payless Cashways here a couple of days ago, as a matter of fact, and got me one of those little can crushers that I could put on the wall
I put me a little five gallon bucket,
it's just outside the garage door
every time we drink a Coke or whatever we crush the can and just drop it into the bucket.
Do those can crushers work good?
I got one from Payless Cashways,
it's actually metal
it's not plastic.
I didn't want to buy a plastic one.
because those things I think would just snap
Payless Cashways has them
they're metal,
I don't know what affiliate of Payless Cashways you have up there,
it was only seven dollars, not too bad.
I'd have to check into something like that, because, we don't drink a whole lot of soda around here,
occasionally we have some around,
for other kind of cans, it'd probably only take aluminum cans like that, don't they.
I don't,
I don't think it would crush steel cans,
it's pretty tough.
I don't know,
I don't think you have to crush the other ones for them to get to take that,
you could probably just,
I need to look into it more,
sometimes, even with the newspaper they say they'll only take certain types of paper,
they won't take
paper that's shiny,
take any lint free paper
I work at T I.
so does my husband,
We do a lot of recycling out there.
Now we recycle all our computer paper and our cardboard,
that's just now come on board.
we've been throwing paper out there away for years,
we're just now getting on board to recycling
ever since this big Earth Day thing came out,
I don't know what,
I haven't,
I'm sure they're probably doing that here some.
I'm sure they are.
T I is doing it pretty well nation wide, I'm sure.
I think it's necessary,
like it,
it makes,
I think it's good that you see these, boxes, cereal,
they're now starting to make out of recycled paper,
greeting cards that are made out of recycled paper,
I think they're just fine.
I bought a,
I got one at work that I bought for one of the guys there at work,
it's his birthday,
we're pretty good friends,
what it is is a recycled paper bag
it's just got Happy Birthday printing on it, and a cute little phrase inside,
it's just a paper bag
it's really cute.
I think we're doing better and better all the time,
(( )) still don't,
I think we're more conscious because we just can't stick everything in landfills any more.
there's not going to be any room, shortly.
the office,
I don't know what New York does about theirs.
I guess they still ship it out on barges somewhere.
it's probably sitting out on the barge somewhere .
I think we're getting better at it
I think there's quite a bit more we could do.
Girls, put that away.
you're right sometimes it does seem like it's more trouble than what it would be worth.
I just wish it was a little more
to do,
seems like you're so busy anyway,
that's just one more thing to have to worry about.
it sure is.
I think if, the cities, locally, they'd get more programs going so that you could do that, it'd make it a lot easier.
they'll get at it sooner.
I guess the schools will get into it, too, sooner or later.
get the kids
they have,
interested in it too.
We tried to have an aluminum can drive with the cub scouts that I have,
we just don't have any place to store those kind of cans.
if we go out and pick up a bunch of cans from people, sure they'll save them for us, there's no problem there.
what do you do with them in the meantime?
That's right.
I don't want full of cans .
That's right,
who does.
people don't have room for that kind of stuff.
prepared for it.
in Texas, they're just get, things like that,
they just get bugs in them.
they do.
you don't,
the more trash you have laying around the more bugs you get,
that's for sure.
That's right,
I'm pretty lazy about it right now.
Everything goes into one thing and goes out to the .
pick it up.
About the only thing I really recycle around here is aluminum cans.
I need to better at it.
if we all try a little bit, a little bit goes a long way.
that's right,
that's right.
If everybody tries to do just a little bit, and a little bit more then
That's true.
we'll get there.
That's right.
thank you for talking to me.
thank you for calling.
no problem,
take care.
All right,
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
I, assume you have kids .
we have one.
She's only nine months old.
doesn't have to worry about public schools yet.
my degree is in teaching,
(( )) .
we have a little bit of a basis for conversation.
I was a substitute teacher for about a year.
I, thought I wanted to be a teacher
before I went through all of that I wanted to see how I was going to like it.
in Alabama, where I came from allow you to substitute if you got a four year degree.
I went out and played substitute for a while and decided, nope, not for me.
Did you teach in all subjects or in all grade levels
It was,
I just took grades one through six.
I thought I was going to be smart and get the good kids, wrong.
my degree was in fourth through seventh grade
I taught junior high.
I expected it to be a lot of trouble
it wasn't that bad,
I taught remedial reading kids.
they don't call it remedial reading these days,
they call it something else.
at the time that's what I taught.
you kind of group your behavioral problems together that way,
huh .
when you have your slow readers
wasn't too bad.
got long real well.
sometimes wonder if I didn't mess up.
I maybe should have taken the higher grades because at least you can, if you have to you can get mean with them.
Those little kids don't understand it.
especially with the real young ones.
I started out wanting to teach lower, like primary and then top primary and thought, no, I don't like this as much and ended up moving up and got up until about the sixth
that's what I got my certification in.
I had decided long before I was even married that I wanted to, if possible, teach my kids at home and not put them in the public schools.
my reason for that was I don't like varied inappropriate influences that you find so much in the public schools.
that's a nice way of putting it.
You can find a lot of good public schools look real hard
I don't think they could cover everything that you could teach,
your children on an individual basis.
most people don't have that option.
it also depends on the district your in as, on the,
I've seen some districts where all the schools are lousy it doesn't matter what you do.
accept for the private ones, of course, we're talking about public.
I don't know .
Back when I was going to school you just didn't get away with the things these kids get away with now.
pulled stunts like that and you were down at the principal's office and, usually bending over to get five of the best,
Yeah .
scold the children for something, without getting sued.
the crime is just escalated and the drugs and,
even in the lower, the lower schools.
the thing that really did it for me, I was subbing in a fifth grade class
this kid comes to school with his lunch box
inside this lunch box got easily hundred to two hundred and fifty dollars in one dollar bills.
I asked him, what are you doing with that?
he says, "My father gave it to me."
I didn't believe it for a minute.
huh .
not a lot I could do about it.
Can't stop the kid from bringing money to school if he wants.
Crazy for him to
I have,
I've full ,
I think I understood kid was doing he was a,
let's just say he was one of types that you wouldn't doubt that he was selling something.
not a lot I could do about it.
we had the problem when I was in,
with teaching,
I was eighth and ninth graders that I worked with
if we did have student come in and they were drunk or they were on something you had the option of calling the police and have them taken out of the schools or trying to teach them something while they were there.
you don't know if you were reaching them or not
we felt like, maybe just going ahead and than have them taken out.
Because, that just,
that doesn't do a lot for them.
alleviates your problem
it doesn't do anything for them.
most the time if
some of them were even better behaved.
I've only had two instances where it was really noticeable
they were better behaved when they were,
I don't know if was alcohol or something else that they were on
it ended up better
I don't know,
guns and,
I don't know
it's something.
I think there's a problem too with teachers trying be so versatile that they do loose sight of the basics,
they've been a big drive the seventies to return back to the basics.
I'm not completely teach the basics in schools
I think there does need to be a reemphasis of those because,
of lower grades in the standardized test and such.
it's indicative across the board that done something wrong.
when you see, Koreans and Chinese and Japanese who are taking all the, science jobs, all the engineering jobs, all the mathematical jobs
here we are
balance a checkbook without a calculator.
I don't know.
I spent a year and a half in Japan also
I've seen how their school system works
they go by a complete rote system,
you just memorize everything.
at the end certain time period you spitted everything back out
the better the memorizer you are the better your grades are going to be.
I don't completely agree with that either.
there definitely needs to be a balance somewhere.
a great deal what law schools like .
is it?
Is that what you ended up going into?
I did the same sort of thing,
they just,
you sit there and read hundreds and hundreds of cases
you get one examine for the whole semester
it's how well you can remember it all.
much can you stuff in your brain.
I found that a particularly useless way of studying.
I never did.
I always tried to understand things, not tried to memorize.
consequently some of the very best students excellent memories
they couldn't put two and two together as far as the law was concerned.
It didn't show me anything.
A year and a half, I gave it up.
I wasn't really wa ,
I didn't want to be a lawyer anyway,
just wanted the degree.
I don't know.
What can we do about it?
question .
Money is not the answer.
There's plenty of money in the system,
it's just,
throwing more money at it now than ever before
things are getting worse.
I think it's like a lot of things United States.
We've got so much built up in the, bureaucracy and in the politics of it,
in power plays that it needs to be pulled down and started over again
there's no way that, that can be done.
Not without wiping out a whole generation kids in the school system,
Maybe on scales.
I don't know
as much as I didn't like school when I was going through it,
from my perspective now I can see that it's a lot better than what we have now.
I think part of it is that they've got to give authority back to the local school.
silly people are handcuffed when it comes to discipline.
Right into the classroom it needs to be
be able ,
to be enforced.
teachers are so afraid now of even saying something,
to students because complaints or they're going to get sued or something.
It's like doctors in lawsuits,
(( they're kind of fearful )) of,
lawyers help create that .
at least I've heard that
I haven't fortunately been in a situation where it's,
been applicable to me
(( )) ,
what we've turned the school schools into now are just day care centers
we're going to send our kid here for seven or eight hours a day
he's out of our hair.
the other part of it is parents have quit becoming parents.
they're just,
it has to be reinforced in the home.
you can, you can have the best school system in the world if you don't get at home then not going to help either.
I don't know,
I don't know,
I don't know what the answer is.
It's an thing you want to do.
how is Texas about keeping your children out of public schools,
do they allow it?
They allow it under certain circumstances.
You have prove that you're teaching them something.
You have to follow,
a preferred curriculum,
they try to encourage you to follow a specific curriculum, although you don't have to.
if you have particular religious beliefs kind of monitored.
will allow you to,
I can't think of any examples
certain religious groups don't want their children in public schools because the influence.
maybe they were a group of Mennonites or something like that.
I don't think they're were in this area
are monitored State School Board.
That's interesting.
I remembering reading a few cases about some people first tried that and they got sued.
Got taken to court by the school system.
I'm glad the parents won.
it seems silly that, we started
the way you got your education in this country.
I don't know.
I grew up, in sixties,
at that time, it was a changing time for the whole music scene, I guess
I grew up with the Beatles and the Rolling Stones and the whole pot culture during that time and went through that phase and kind of stayed with it I guess for several years after I graduated from college thereafter
have since,
I grew up in a small town southern Oklahoma
I have kind of gone back to, more of a county, flavor in music.
I'm not quite sure why that is
it seems like almost a opposite,
I guess I got away from what I consider to be the pot, sounding music.
It didn't have I was looking for at the time country tell's more of story.
It kind of reminds me of my roots of growing up
become I guess more of a country fan over the years.
When you say that you grew up, in the sixties I take it that was the, teenage type years
that was my teenage years.
I was born in fifty
very similarly aged,
we probably have an perspective on the music on the times,
I'm just a couple years older than you,
essentially I was one of the nerdy types in high school really which meant that didn't pay much attention to music,
as I look back now I realize it was very formative for me,
my early popular music interests were in Simon and Garfunkel, whom I saw perform when I was in college
I became attached to that style of, country if there is such a thing,
I think in a way one could talk about Simon and Garfunkel that way because they do tend, to have a dramatic or story approach to their music, usually tend to have some good or bad moral to it.
over time I became very interested baroque classical
I think that was just through experiencing contacting college and the fact that I found very relaxing for me.
My tastes now run I guess to a upbeat, Simon,
it's something that interests me, combined the classical tastes I had mentioned.
my classical music tends to be confined to the seventeen hundreds, early eighteen hundred music.
I'm not a music,
(( )) , I'm not particularly schooled in it.
I know what I like to listen to as far as classical music.
That's kind of the way I am.
I spent a good deal of time listening also to, people from the late seventies, Neil Diamond, for instance. people that particular time,
I listen to some country and western
I'm not in it
enjoyed the times when I have listened to it.
I played a little bit of piano.
I continue to do that.
I want to do it
I never have the discipline to stay with it,
when I do play, and begin to reacquire skills I inevitably fall in love with country western music which tends to be in some ways easy to play new piano player.
got, basically an easy, rhythm tone.
well easily fall into.
I'm kind of the say way,
gone through different periods of life, in music from pop to classical.
I guess one of the things that influenced me was that worked in radio stations as a D J for all my college years trying to support my way through there,
suppor ,
was support,
I was influenced by all different kinds of music
basically because that's where I worked.
I've developed a real love for, classical music in, probably junior high and high school because my band instructor was, heavy into classical type music.
He said he used to sit on Saturday mornings and watch cartoons just to hear the music, that they were using behind them because they used, especially Disney used a lot of classical music, behind the cartoons
consequently we playing a lot of classical music there
I think that, got deep seated into me.
One of things I especially like now in music regardless of what kind it is, are those that call on those classical, roots, I guess, Barry Manilow comes to mind for some reason not a whole lot of his stuff that I'm real crazy about,
he does have some things.
Chicago had some things,
I think even Electric Light Orchestra had real, influences by classical music
my favorite,
in fact most of my C D s are classical music.
I find it very interesting that some television shows that I enjoy I particularly like the music.
I don't know which is chicken and egg in that situation.
a good example would be,
I have connections not particularly deep ones to the Vietnamese war type situations,
I found that I really like CHINA BEACH
I particularly like TOUR OF DUTY
both of them, I had as much fascination of the background music, I think going on as I did to the theme of the shows,
I, I've, THIRTY SOMETHING I'm particularly interested,
it's the music,
almost that I find myself listening to,
I'm kind of thinking that's maybe,
our generation was, so in tuned to music of that time that we identify goodness or badness with, things now with the music that's behinds them.
That could well be.
spent my year college when I,
a song by the,
I think the title of it was just Downtown,
if you recall how it goes downtown,
ta, da, da, da,
all I have to do is hear that song and I get strongly evoked memories difficult times in school being behind on work,
my family now knows if they come into my study and, I happen to have had a tough day at work and maybe I'm trying to get a project done, at school, and I'm humming or whistling in a sort of mad crazy way the tune to Downtown they know to just stay away,
That's their signal.
They can hear the unconscious music signal behind it,
that's right.
When did you first take your, first piano lesson?
probably about first grade,
I have, returned about every four or five years to thinking that I would like to do something about it.
I usually get to the point where I can play some of my favorite themes
inevitably I am swept away by pressure of other types of things,
It is a time consumer.
It is.
In order to continue grow and
always think that I'll be able to do it
I inevitably discover that I have no innate music talent relative to composition and that I struggle and really can't quite understand what is that other people take for granted,
in composition themes
keys and things are something to me that remain a mystery no matter how many times I bang on them.
I have a pretty good mathematical concept for what's involved,
innate music sense there just seems to be something missing there which is always frustrating for me since I have pretty high math aptitude
I keep thinking, I thought that all the math and music people are supposed to go hand in hand
it doesn't for me.
it's making connection especially with the mechanical parts of it.
I was never able master all that.
In fact my brother and sister both, they were, thirteen, sixteen years older than I, they went through the, parent thing where you've got to practice or you're not going out to play thing,
when it came to my turn the folks said no we're not going through that again,
they sold the piano,
turns out I was the only one who really had an interest in it and never got to,
that's one of things I felt like I missed in life
in fact, one of my favorite things to do now is sit down and listen to Chopin, that is played on, piano.
drift off into some other world just listening to that for hours if I ever have the time to do that,
(( )) ,
maybe one of these days, I'll,
I'm kind of like you, maybe one of these days I'll get around to it,
I'll do something with the piano,
probably not.
we both have a secret background that says somehow or another we just knew we were piano players and never got a chance,
Just never got a chance to come out.
That's the most fascinating thing .
it's a pleasure talking with you.
you, sir,
take care.
of luck in your graduate school.
Good bye.
Good bye.
do you want to go first?
I could barely hear what the switchboard operator was saying as what was the topic.
Fitness and exercise.
God .
why don't you go first.
I like to do, weight training cycling. And just walking, swimming.
I used to do a lot of basketball and running and volleyball until I had some knee surgery last fall.
the doctor said that running and jumping isn't real good for my knee anymore,
I had to kind of change my life style a little bit .
let me ask a (( personal )) question,
how old are you?
Thirty eight.
then you should
(( )) over thirty five everything goes downhill (( flop )) .
the rest of me is in pretty good shape
it's just that left knee that just doesn't want to do everything it used to.
you're lucky then
I've battled arthritis all my life,
even since I was about two or three.
Then they diagnosed it,
usually most people are just absolutely crippled,
I do water aerobics.
I bet that helps.
Religiously do water aerobics,
I used to do it about six times a week
now I'm down to about four
it's about the only thing that keeps my mobility
I tried weight training
I'm telling you, can't lift the things.
the shock on the system just too much,
I have stuck to water aerobics basically, the weightless thing and,
trying to keep this shape that way
it's hard to find.
it's really hard to find a place that's going to offer water aerobics because what I'm finding is that if they do offer it, you get the crowd of women that are, ,
I think they feel this is going to be an effortless (( sweatless )) way,
That's right.
to get in shape,
That's right.
without having to spend anything
it's the geriatric crowd.
That's right.
I've considered even becoming licensed to teach it.
you know what your routine is, you can do that by yourself,
you probably do.
you have to have an indoor pool.
This is true.
to find an indoor pool where either you can do this by yourself without, drawing a lot of looks, means you're really going to do a strenuous workout activity (( ))
you look very odd in the water,
that was the one place where I was also able to do weight training,
that does look very odd in the water.
I can believe that.
Have you tried pool at the Spring Creek Fitness Center?
that's the only place I haven't tried
people have told me.
that's the Texins facility?
I have been told that thing is just lovely.
It is.
They keep it at eighty one degrees year round.
He ,
do you use that facility a lot?
good amount, more on the weekends,
I try to beat the traffic in the mornings when I workout in the mornings, I try to come down to the Dallas Fitness Center.
Do you know if they have child care there?
have you done your attitude survey for this year yet?
You need to put that on there, seriously.
They don't,
work at T I.
you don't?
I used to work at T I,
as matter of fact I was the only woman that they had in the field in a management position
when I was working there I was the only woman that was pretty much in the industry ,
I used to fill out those attitude surveys,
me and the insurance adjusters very familiar with each other
my husband still works there,
I get my attitude expressed through them,
I find it to be very
sometimes it's kind of shoot yourself in the foot (( )) mentality to save a few bucks.
This is true.
never having lived in Texas before I starting working for T I
I came down here
they did an attitude survey like six weeks after I had been working here
I asked about, day care for the shift workers,
I was pulled in by my manager and told that you just don't say that,
it's not,
it was not applicable to me
I was kind of horrified.
what year are we talking about?
We're talking nineteen seventy eight.
things have become much more enlightened since then.
They couldn't have gotten anymore in the dark ages .
we still don't have a day care facility
people are more sympathetic to it.
that they're now covering women's preventative health care,
the reason I'm at home is when I had my kids, and I was scheduled to go back I had been rated number one in the field
I took,
when I became pregnant I also got meningitis,
and then delivered the first baby three months early,
My gosh.
they put the baby on a heart lung monitor when I took her home,
the insurance carrier was not going to cover this because it was considered preventative treatment.
Could you hold the phone for one second,
I'm back.
they used to,
I had a second one eighteen months later,
they told me to put them back to back
of course, to maintain
I was flat on my back for the last five months with the second one,
because that's when I go into labor (( )) four and a half months
I don't even know it.
Of course it's real easy to take care of the first one when you're on your back.
very easy,
very easy
put me on twenty four hour fetal monitoring then try to control the labor and see how far it was going,
after the baby was born, since it wasn't premature, then they said they wouldn't cover the cost of the monitor.
I think that's kind of when my husband hit the roof,
because it was a, thirteen thousand dollar bill,
after the second baby was born I was going to go back to work,
that was when they had,
God it would have been the eighty five layoff,
I'll tell you how they handled this
I was just outraged,
I did not know that since I was on personal leave of absence that I had been, terminated until I filed my insurance claims about four months later
they didn't have any coverage under my name
I went back
I said what the hell is going on here,
they told me your husband works here
he's got a good salary
we didn't think that you'd be coming back anyway,
we've got people here that really, need to be working
so that we had just,
it was, this way we didn't have to layoff an active person
we'd just let you go.
it took me about a year of arguing,
I said, I've got to put this in writing to me,
because until they put it in writing, I couldn't get my insurance benefits
I couldn't get my, termination benefits either.
There you go.
I was just pissed as hell that they could do that.
can believe that.
guess things have gotten better,
I've been told that this flex hour and those kind of (( things )) ,
flex time is great.
I still don't think that, after my experiences that they could, get me to go back, ever again .
can understand.
I can understand.
it's been good talking with you.
let me ask you this, since you (( use )) Texans,
how much is it a month?
shoot it's only about ten bucks a month.
that's for individual.
to add dependents maybe another dollar or something
it's no big deal.
That's it?
pay your monthly charge, do you then pay separately for classes your taking?
you do
use any of the facilities no extra charge.
God, that's cheap.
it is.
That's really cheap.
Do you have to be an active T I employee to join Texans or,
a depe ,
or a dependent of one.
Or a depe ,
God, I am so dependent these days.
It's (( a sense )) (( )) .
(( )) seen that (( co dependents )) have turned on the hose and are getting my neighbors fence.
Yeah .
my position for management to domestic goddess has been an adjustment
boy, I think I'm going to go contact Texans.
I really think I am,
that beats any offer I've heard in a long time.
it's great.
All righty.
When you're there on weekends is it crowded as hell?
it would depend on when you go
excessively crowded on the weekends.
I'd want to be there in the mornings from nine thirty to ten thirty .
I don't think that would be bad at all.
If you're in Richardson you'd probably wanted to come Dallas site.
I'm actually right on the Plano line.
then you could go either one,
the Spring Creek one is a lot more modern, has a lot more niceties, amenities
you'd probably like the pool there.
God it sounds like I would.
I might do that then.
I learned something here.
I'm glad.
You can go back to work now.
thank you.
Thank you.
You have a good day.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
I guess, this is probably really a good subject for me because I really like to do, hand work.
mostly I do needlepoint, I guess.
What kinds of things have you done?
I've made a lot of baby gifts .
It seem like that's,
especially lately there's been so many babies, bibs and blankets, and things like that. Wall hangings,
Do you ever keep any of your stuff?
Isn't that funny.
No .
I do crochet and a lot of, things like that,
I have very little of my own stuff,
it's kind of embarrassing.
People say let me see some of your work.
can you do it (( )) ?
isn't that funny.
I guess I do have one thing.
A friend of mine gave me a clock kit
needlepointed the face,
I, kept that because she gave me that.
would be definitely something you'd want to keep.
it's real neat.
the whole face done or just the numbers, and, and, like minute marks?
basically, the whole,
I guess the minute marks,
the minute marks are done, they're like hearts.
at the numbers kind of outlined and stuff.
was quite bit of work,
it was a lot of fun, too.
I really like doing stuff like that.
I did some needlepoint years ago,
I got into the Bargello.
what's that?
it's an Italian, needlework, the
I started to say the canvas,
what kind of cloth uses that.
just gone blank.
it's used with yarn,
it usually takes long stitches over two or three openings in the cloth
you weave intricate patterns and use different colors.
it could be a flame stitch where rather than drawing a picture you're making a design like a geometric or whatever,
it was used quite often in the colonial times upholster chairs, and so forth, as well as the crewel, embroidery work that was done on them.
that's interesting.
What I did, when I was doing that was mostly pillows, for sofas and so forth,
I can't find one that I've done.
It's one of those things
give them away,
I didn't know if it's been my color choice or multiple moves
I was so proud of them when I got them finished,
I have no idea where they are.
What did you call that?
It's B, A, R, G, E, double L, O
I've never heard of that before.
I've probably seen it, though,
I suspect you,
when you described it.
I suspect you have.
when you described it, it sounded like something, that would be around, I guess.
I've never heard of it before,
it's really interesting.
I guess I've decorated baskets and stuff before in the past,
I've kind of gotten out of that.
I use to do a lot more and sell at craft shows.
Me, too.
Really .
Yes .
That's interesting.
it is.
How did you know to choose this subject, tonight.
That's funny .
how did you,
what kinds of decorations did you use with the bas ,
how were you decorating the baskets?
basically bows and lace
I really wanted to do,
so many of them now have the ribbons where, I'm not sure how they do it,
the ribbons, they make them, they
I don't know how to explain it.
They make them hard,
Like fabric that's been stiffened.
I've never done that,
those are so neat.
I would really like to do those
I've seen some,
I suspect they're fairly simple, because the one lady I've seen, I know that does it, I've never asked her any questions,
she has three kids all under the age of like six.
they're all a handful.
it's got to be something she can do fairly easily
and fairly quickly.
When I do, crochet, it's usually the lacy Victorian type
things like that,
I stiffen those with glue mixture.
It's like white glue,
it may be something similar to that that the fabric is dipped in and then, allowed to dry in those draping streamers.
I don't know.
I was just.
There's bound to be some kind of fabric stiffener like that that's very similar
that's not going to melt too much with, high humidity,
in a room,
I think that's what my concern was, was it really sure, and last.
Do you know what my concern is?
How will I dust this thing?
You're right.
That's terrible.
that's true.
That's funny.
So many of my crafts,
right now I'm looking at a little quilted, hanging,
a flag,
I don't want to wash it, because that would start breaking down the batting and so forth,
it's such a dust collector to be out, and so forth.
Yeah .
most of my things are dust collectors .
I hate to dust.
I know.
first thing I think of is how easy would this,
thing be to clean.
That's funny .
I do some,
I have really gotten out of it.
I don't do it quite as much as I used to. I guess because went back to school,
I don't have as much time.
you don't have time.
I have two children also .
You definitely don't have time.
It keeps me very busy.
I really enjoy it when I do do it, when I get the chance,
It's really,
it's so relaxing to just sit,
once I get started, I can't put it down.
I just,
I have a similar problem.
I've got to have time
I don't even want to get into it in the first place.
I end up lots of time not doing anything at all.
I know,
I started a project, that I swore I was going to finish for somebody for Christmas.
You just didn't say which Christmas, right .
That's what I keep telling this person,
I didn't tell you what year .
What was this project?
cross stitch,
it's a picture,
it's a wildlife,
it has deer and trees
it's really beautiful,
it's going to be a lot of work,
worked on it quite a bit, but not as much as I'd like to.
it's just so hard.
this is done in the needlepoint?
I should ,
it's counted cross stitch, is what I'm doing,
a lot of work.
I do know.
I have done a little bit of that,
I decided that that's something that demands total attention.
I've got to have silence.
I can't really watch television if the pattern is very intricate.
It sounds like you'd have lots of shading
on that particular piece.
It sound like an easy one to finish.
it really isn't,
I tell you, I could just kick myself for even starting it, because I have a feeling I'm never going to get it done.
I'm probably going to hear about it the rest of my life .
I'm sure you'll get it done,
it just may not of the original,
obviously not of the original time schedule.
that's true.
just don't know when I'm ever,
it just seems like there's just never enough time to pick it up and do it,
it's just really hard.
I really do en ,
I said I really enjoy it when I do.
It's just hard.
Just hard finding the time
that can be dedicated.
so many other things that, have done, in the meantime, like I said, so many baby gifts.
I've made a lot of bibs, and wall hangings,
those don't take much time at all.
it's no big deal for me to pick those up and do them.
do you go out an buy kit, for a bib or something like that.
I usually just buy a pattern book.
I have several pattern books,
I just go with those.
I buy the bibs separate.
Usually I think it's a little bit cheaper in the long run,
I just use whatever colors I want to.
I don't usually use the colors they tell me to.
depends on what it is,
some things, especially letters, if they suggest certain colors for letters, I just go with whatever I want to.
That's what I would do, too.
Or whatever I have.
a few designs I guess I've done myself, but not very many.
Real simple ones, I do.
a little thumb print and made it a bunny.
It was really easy.
did a thumb print.
What. With ink?
I didn't cross stitch the actual thumb print,
that was just the ink,
I made the ears and little eyes and nose and mouth.
That was so simple .
that sounds really neat.
It didn't take anything at all.
a stamp pad
I just,
and ink.
just like being finger printed ...
what kind of movies have you seen, lately, I guess?
a lot,
the last movie I saw, but it wasn't my choice, was the NINJA TURTLE movie .
Obviously you have kids.
That's right.
my preference is the one we saw before that was SILENCE OF THE LAMBS.
I haven't seen that one yet.
That's an excellent movie.
the last movie I saw was, SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY.
was that good.
I heard,
I'm not a big Julie Roberts fan.
more impressed with her than I thought I would be.
that's good.
It turned out to be a better thriller than I was expecting it to be.
it was a pretty good movie.
SILENCE OF THE LAMBS kept me on the edge of my seat.
ready to go.
It just,
it's, hasn't worked out that way yet.
looks good,
it is.
if you like thrillers,
I do.
In fact, people I've talked to said that they hadn't slept real good for a while afterwards.
I love them like that.
I'm not,
like all ranges of movies,
I like that where they run tense.
I really enjoy,
they keep me guessing the whole time.
what other movies have you seen then lately?
Other than the,
I assume you were talking about the new NINJA TURTLES.
the new one, of course .
Is that any good,
I'm sure I'm going to be seeing it because in a week to Amarillo where my sister lives, and she's got two boys that I took to see the first one.
Oh .
I'm sure I'm going to see the next one here real soon.
I didn't see the first one.
My husband said it was, about the same lines.
then it won't be too bad.
it wasn't impressive necessarily,
it was better than it could have been.
I was impressed with the fact that, it wasn't that childish.
You know what I mean.
It wasn't,
my daughter's five,
she understood everything.
She goes to almost all movies with us except, R rated.
she really enjoyed it,
it was on a higher level, where there were some things that kids didn't understand that adults did,
I liked that.
I think that's important if kids are going to, parents are going to have to go
you ought to make it at least semi ,
semi for them too.
That's right,
that's right.
It's pretty good.
we take her to just about every movie,
does really good.
We've taken her from real young,
she does real good.
Like I said, we don't take her to R s.
if and when we ever get a baby sitter, like we did with SILENCE OF THE LAMBS, we go see it.
I's about to say, you're not going to take her to that one, I'm sure.
to a lot of comedy movies
What was the last comedy you saw?
gosh what was the last comedy we saw?
Good question,
good question.
We don't get to go that often,
something on the tip of my tongue,
I can't think of which one it was.
Gosh, I can't remember.
The last,
in fact I guess this was the last movie I saw
I said that wrong,
the last movie I saw was THE HARD WAY with Michael J. Fox.
sounds good.
that really wasn't too bad.
There were,
he's supposed,
he's this actor, right
he's playing a cop.
he's hanging around with a cop trying to pick up the stuff.
I think he did an excellent job in not being too much of a cop.
were times when be running with a gun or whatever.
He didn't look like a cop when he did it.
I was so
That's neat.
impressed with that because, usually,
The part was hard, to do that.
because, everybody grows up looking at these cop movies and trying imitate them or whatever.
I thought he did such an excellent job of not
going that far.
by the end he was looking more like a cop.
at the beginning of the movie and all through the middle part, he was get it,
he wasn't there yet.
you could tell it,
I guess that I thought was a real good acting and writing job both, or directing job.
I think they did a real good job of that.
James Woods, I think is who it was, did an excellent job as the cop.
he just,
I like him.
some definite, should I say, tense moments,
with him in there.
Probably the last comedy we saw, now that I think about it, is HOME ALONE.
I had seen it before Christmas,
I took a date to it, about a month ago.
I've seen it the second time not too long ago.
It was really cute.
I really enjoyed it.
Of course, the bad thing about it was, the second time I saw it, I didn't really enjoy it as much,
I was kind of surprised at that.
I thought that would be one of those that I would love to watch over and over.
maybe it's just the idea of my reaction to the first time. I had laughed so hard I was hoarse.
hoarse getting out of there.
maybe I just laughed so hard the first time that I didn't have it,
it just wasn't as funny the second time
because I had just gone overboard the first time.
I don't know
Maybe so,
maybe so.
a great movie though.
I loved the movie.
I did, too.
I'm looking forward to this summer, NAKED GUN TWO AND A HALF is coming out.
I love those movies.
I do too.
they are just slapstick .
you have to see those twice to catch everything.
you have to see them more than that.
I still catch things in AIRPLANE that I didn't catch.
it's amazing
I do too.
I love those movies
I do too.
I really do.
I'm looking forward to seeing that
because that looks hilarious,
as they all do.
try to go a couple times a month, I guess
to see a movie.
just getting so expensive.
isn't it though.
that's at least the good thing about the Texas organization letting you buy the tickets cheaper.
normally we don't think about it until,
That's exactly what,
I was going to say.
I keep not doing it until after I'm there
all of a sudden I'm saying I wish I'd bought these things.
I know, because we can go spend fifteen dollars
just getting in
the three of us.
if you want popcorn and stuff
I don't understand why they charge you out the kazoo for both.
popcorn is not that expensive.
nowhere near that expensive.
they get you at the ticket booth and then try and get you at the popcorn and coke.
just the idea that actors, live in such lavish style.
it's as simple as that.
We just keep breeding them.
as long as we keep paying the money for it, they are going to keep paying them.
I guess so.
have you seen DANCES WITH WOLVES?
an excellent movie.
I haven't seen,
we're waiting for the video.
That needs the big screen.
It really and truly does, because to get the feeling
of and everything
you've got to be where you feel it.
You really truly do.
I would,
I guess my first instinct was to wait for the video, too.
I'm glad I didn't.
I really and truly am.
I came out impressed.
I really and truly did.
I have absolutely no problems with them winning seven Oscars.
None at all.
Normally I'm one of these people that I don't like movie taking all the honors.
Everythin ,
I wanted him to win best actor on top of it,
he was,
Like I said, I wouldn't given the supporting actresses either one.
even though they were okay, the girl in it,
somebody made an interesting observation,
now that I think back on it, I'd say yeah, I can't believe that either.
She was the only indian to have her hair done at all times.
You know what I mean,
It was just too perfect at all times.
That was a mistake that they made.
They shouldn't have done it.
the best,
the supporting actor, he was good,
from what I heard, the guy who got it was better,
can see that.
You think my daughter would like it?
one spot that was just a little bit on the gory side.
She doesn't mind when we cover up her eyes.
no problems .
just the idea that there is this one spot where the white man has come by and killed a bunch a buffalo and just stripped
one reason I don't want to see the movie
is because I love buffalos for some weird reason,
I know they're fake.
of course,
that, and plus, part of it is the idea that he goes with them on a buffalo hunt.
they are killing buffalos in it.
they don't stress that very much,
they really don't.
I think it's an excellent movie for,
she enjoys movies I think it'll work pretty good.
that'll be good.
We really need some,
my husband keeps wanting to.
it's a long movie.
I heard the video's even going to be longer.
They did a lot of stuff that they cut out.
I may have to see the video.
(( )) that's true,
they said,
I hadn't even thought of that.
they said there's a lot that had been edited, because of the length
that they wanted in,
they're going to put it in the video.
that way you can watch it at your leisure.
I kind of like it when they do that, because the video, like I said,
there are certain things you can't do with a video
the idea that they may put a little extra in it I think is a good idea.
Because when you rent a video,
videos, of course, are not cheap either
the idea of getting a little extra with it I think is a good idea. Because make bundles of money off those things.
I know it .
Isn't that ridiculous.
We have cable which
I do too.
helps a lot .
but not enough.
we keep holding out,
I'm getting to the point where, NICK AT NIGHT.
do you have .
Are you there?
Okay .
There, okay.
Had to mess with my phone here.
do you have children?
I have one.
How about you?
I have three.
my goodness .
Yeah .
do you work?
I do.
I do,
I work
Brian's in a day care center.
was two in December,
he's not quite two and a half yet.
I put him,
I'm kind of had ideas from what probably the majority of people have,
I put him in a day care center from the very beginning.
He started in day care when he was eight weeks old.
no kidding.
I just,
I don't know,
I have kind of the opposite opinion of most people,
I have had this real problem with private individual.
kind of looked at it like if you take him to a home private individual, when the door shuts,
that one person has total control,
I always figured at least in a day care center there are other people around,
if you get one bad apple, there's are at least other people that can see it.
They can watch,
I just kind of always felt that the chances of something happening were less.
Because there's,
how can you help depending on the day care center,
you got to when you hear about all the horrible things that happen in day care centers,
have you ever noticed they're always a family owned center where the mother and the daughter and the son run it, kind of thing.
It's a family thing.
You never hear about it really in the big ones.
that's what I did
I have had just excellent luck.
I have been just so happy.
I was just going to ask you you liked
obviously you do or you wouldn't have him there, I know,
the same center for two years,
for the first two years,
it was wonderful,
I loved it,
I was so happy there
the woman who owned it sold it.
I thought okay, I'm going to keep an open mind here,
the people who came in, it just wasn't, it,
Wasn't the same.
just wasn't the same
their attitude and philosophy was just completely,
opposite from mine,
I left him there for about a month and just decided I can't do this anymore,
moved him, which was an extremely traumatic experience
Was it?
he's done well,
he's been there,
a couple of months now,
I just feel so lucky.
That's great,
that's good.
How about you?
Do you work
do you get to stay home with them?
I got to stay home with my kids for the first ten years.
My oldest one is ten and a half now,
she's, I guess,
was about ten years.
I was really happy that I was able to do that.
that's what I wanted to, because just couldn't wait to have kids
if I was,
I was so anxious to have them
I couldn't wait to have them it would be kind of silly, to go back to work as soon as I had them,
it, it was really great.
By the end of the ten years I was really ready ,
I bet .
to go back to work,
my youngest was only, two and a half .
she was already two and a half,
an infant.
A baby.
Yeah .
I felt real good about that,
boy, I tell you with summer coming up I'm just pulling my hair out, in terms of what I'm going to do,
guess I,
went back to work about a year and a half ago
I worked full time all last year
now I'm going to school part time and, graduate school,
I'm working part time .
I'm still,
I know how that goes .
I'm still going full time,
I only have half time salary,
when school lets out, I just don't,
I haven't, I have no idea what I'm going to do,
because I certainly can't afford what we did last year
which was,
Did you have them in a center or something last summer?
we did,
all different things,
we sent them to camp.
first month, in June, they went to summer school, then the second month they,
my daughter went home to visit my Mom for a while and my son, went to camp
there we had, I don't know some,
forget what else we did
it was all, really expensive .
that stuff is expensive.
It really is.
now they're a year older,
my daughter's this summer
my son will be,
nine and a half.
I'm not,
I think I can leave them home,
for a,
if I can work part of the day, I'm going to leave them home.
I was going to say they're getting to the age where,
you should be able to trust that a little bit,
in fact I'm doing that right now with their afternoons, when they get home before I do.
that's okay.
the four year old had her since I went back to work, before I went back to work really, in a home day care situation,
we've just been really thrilled,
with it too.
We were what,
actually we,
it took us two or three different people to find,
To find the right one,
that's what we have to do though.
I wasn't embarrassed to shop around
person we found it through the,
there's an association here in town of professional home,
care providers or something like that.
you live?
In Plano.
they have a number you can call
all these people are registered with their association
go like
I don't want to call her a baby sitter,
she's doesn't like,
to be called that,
care provider.
Care provider.
She goes to seminars
that's wonderful.
she gets home visitations by the (( )) I don't know, the state boards, I guess, some of them and then some by the association,
they have weekly meetings and everything
it's just really, really well regulated.
That's great.
she's just great.
In fact, she's all upset because Galen is going to go to kindergarten next fall
she says this is it,
I'm not going to have her anymore
I said, no, don't count on that .
After noon classes she's going to be here because she's going to morning kindergarten.
we've tried everything
one year, I guess last year when I went back to work I had
my son was eight at the time, just barely eight,
we put him in Amrein's Day Care, after.
I've heard that,
they were very good.
that's why we picked it, because they supposed to be real great,
I think they were fine,
the thing is he was in school all day,
in second grade,
Plano, it's open classroom situation where they don't have walls,
there is like a hundred and twenty second graders ,
in the same area with no walls.
he'd get on the Amrein's Bus to go to Amrein's
there would be a whole ton of other kids, all in the same room,
what fun they had with these computer games
they'd go outside for awhile,
they had snacks and story time and everything.
it was just like going to school until five thirty at night instead of being able to get home at two thirty.
Poor kid was in school all day.
Because he was always around with a crowd of kids he just really missed being able to be by himself,
and having some peace and quiet
Even at that age they need that time,
we all need that time,
just some quiet time to wind down from the day.
That's exactly it.
another thing that we tried to do,
know your son's too young right now,
to sign him up for after school scouts and,
stuff like that
I think that's really important,
we've already started about,
how young can they start T Ball and soccer? .
Right .
I just,
we both think of as just so important,
It is.
to get him involved in stuff like that
It is.
you could hardly wait,
so much fun now,
starting to get lots of fun
I can't wait until stuff like that starts happening
I bet,
we did the Easter egg hunts,
which was really the first year he was really able to
to doing
and enjoy it,
it was so much fun
he went a couple of weekends ago and rode an elephant
my gosh.
You're kidding.
he got up on this elephant all by himself
Lord, I couldn't believe it.
You're kidding.
They had so much fun. .
that's great.
I bought us tickets and stood there in line
I thought, I'm going to end up on this elephant with him ,
He did it by himself,
. good for him.
stuff like that is starting to come along where it's really,
getting fun,
Day care has just done just incredible stuff with him
he comes home with something new everyday,
that's great.
That's so good.
they're working with him
he's excited to get there in the morning,
and just doesn't even want to kiss me good bye.
It's just like bye,
he goes running,
He's out of there.
he's always having fun when I pick him up
day care
it's Bright Steps in Lewisville.
whenever you say Bright Steps, everybody goes, I've heard that's the best day care in town,
one of those that's very hard to get into.
this woman owns three day cares, two in Lewisville and one in Irving.
she had to open the second one up in Lewisville because,
her waiting list was just a year old,
it was ridiculous.
my gosh.
she's got two day cares within three blocks of each other.
No kidding.
She knows something right, that she (( ))
She knows what she's doing,
are degreed teachers.
that makes such a difference.
it makes a huge difference.
That's the way it is at my daughter's nursery school too.
I think that really makes a difference.
They're in it because it's a profession,
That's right.
That's right.
not because it's a job they could get because they didn't qualify for anything else, .
That's right.
his old day care as much as I loved it,
the owner, I really liked her
she worked really hard to get good people,
the people that she got
were there because they weren't qualified to do anything else
I got lucky
all of his teachers were,
very good.
that's fine,
that's great,
then sometimes,
Sometimes it isn't.
You just have to.
is it real expensive then?
it just went up the first of this month.
I'm paying,
seventy nine dollars a week for now.
It's a little high,
like where he was before I was only paying sixty three,
there's quite a little jump there,
I looked all over Lewisville,
I looked in every day care there was
in Lewisville,
there were places that were cheaper,
is it,
your peace of mind is worth a little bit of money,
I have peace of mind,
where he is
some of those other places I wouldn't have.
That's exactly it.
we do the same thing,
since Galen goes to nursery school,
we pay home care provider, for our day care provider, full time for a whole week,
gone three mornings.
Galen just doesn't go there three mornings a week.
I said to her, I said, it doesn't matter if for whatever re ,
when school holidays come around, I used to have such a problem with that.
They wouldn't have anything to do.
I'd either have to ,
have you ever, had a family reunion?
let me tell you
this is a really neat thing to do too, that they did,
I didn't do it.
Some of organized it.
what they did, they had, a book made up
it was like,
when our ancestors first came over.
No kidding.
what they did was they asked every family to write something about their family.
like, how many kids you had, and who you had married,
it went through
it showed husband's parents were,
huh .
And, who he married and then how many children we had and then his brothers and sisters
it went through the whole family and stuff.
that's so neat.
it was so good.
great .
really did,
it's got a lot more people interested in it because,
you got to participate sort of.
did everybody send in their information and they made a book up,
about it,
you could get it at the reunion.
everybody got a book,
that came to the reunion.
it told where the first Connally's came over,
it told what happened when they got there and how many kids they had
it just kept coming on up through the generations.
That is neat.
do you have a big family?
he does .
he does?
Yeah .
He does,
I don't.
he has enough relatives to make up for me not having any .
That's kind of how my husband and I are.
I have a kind of a big family
he just has himself and his brother and his parents,
that's it.
he had to kind of get used to us when we first started going together.
happened first, met my husband.
I said, this can't be,
nobody can have this many relatives,
a lot of them lived in a group, down one highway.
there was a lake,
they all lived down there by it.
how nice.
we were going down,
the highway,
he kept saying, this is where my uncle lives
this is where my aunt lives and my uncle,
my gosh.
I kept thinking, this guy is putting me on.
Nobody has this many relatives, .
How funny.
they really were all there.
another thing that's really good about, family reunions,
is having everybody just cook whatever is their specialty,
and bring it.
because nobody it seemed the same thing.
you had a choice
you got to taste a lot of new dishes and stuff too,
and get a lot of good recipes.
Where if you said a certain thing and say, okay, we're all going to have fried fish, or, we're all going,
to have fried chicken.
Everybody might not like that.
Not be able to do it.
did people come from out of town to the reunion
They did.
they came from all over.
Did you put them up in other peoples houses
did you have hotel rooms,
how did you do it?
they just stayed with different ones of them.
They did.
They just came down and say, okay, this aunt and Uncle Kip, all their kids and their grand kids and everything,
huh .
they had it.
It had gotten so big that they had it at the church.
they had a church service ahead of it,
then they had,
How nice.
then they ate out on the ground.
they just brought food with them?
Did they just have over a weekend?
Is that how they did it?
I'm real curious because my family,
it didn't sound,
I don't think my family is as big as your husband's.
I don't think we'd need a whole church,
the problem is we are all really scattered,
There isn't any one place where most of us live,
if we ever had a reunion, we'd kind of all have to stay in a hotel.
there would be one person who lived there that would have a house,
they couldn't put everybody up.
would get kind of expensive.
you know what you can do?
A lot of these lakes and things, if you could find a centrally located, about the same distance for all of you all to come?
They have these places where you can rent them
it, on a lake,
it's a big place,
it's got little rooms that separate off of it and stuff,
it's not very expensive that way.
you mean
I see,
everybody could stay together?
It's like a,
they have a,
a house or something.
a convention type thing.
it has little rooms off of it where,
you'd go and sleep at night time.
then it has a kitchenette and things like that
that would be great because then you could spend so much more time together,
than if you all were in your own hotels or something.
every time you wanted to go eat with somebody, you'd probably have to go to out, eat or something.
It would run into a lot of money.
they had,
that was,
That sounds like fun.
what you can do is, you can write different places, the Chamber of Commerce,
tell them what you're interested in.
Ask them what they have,
at area lakes and all.
If they have something like that
now every time we plan anything, just about, we write to the Chamber of Commerce of where we're going because,
you can find out so much easier,
You get a,
that way, than try to locate it,
calling different places can run you up a bill.
if you can find a centrally located place where everybody would have to come about the same distance,
you can't get it exact, usually,
everybody goes to that place.
that is not bad at all.
little cabins,
three or four or five families can stay in those cabins because they have, just the single bunk beds and stuff.
they can all stay in those cabins.
you can have cookouts and stuff like that
that doesn't cost you as much.
That would be great.
That would be really nice .
the best way I found,
because whenever you have,
That sounds good.
something where you go and,
we had one,
this was before I lost a lot more of my family,
it wasn't any of my immediate family
Because I didn't have any of them left.
they had, thing where come and meet and go out to eat.
I didn't think that was as good. Because,
it was like, you couldn't really talk and stuff, like you could when,
you were at the lake,
or somewhere, where you were out.
This was like everybody came into town and went to this restaurant.
you have to sit at a table and just,
it just,
I didn't like that much.
did you,
was it hard to decide who to invite and who not to invite.
did you have to draw a line,
did the people that had that reunion have to draw a line?
they just
whoever ,
What they did was,
wanted to come.
what they did was, wrote to all the initial people,
oldest ones.
then those in turn got a hold of these other ones.
they had
I think there was four or five different people,
that would call,
some of them, if they didn't have their addresses and all on them,
they told them that what we had to do was when we sent back in our information, we had to tell them how many people were going to be coming,
talked to us or when they sent us the letter, to get the information and all,
it asked, will you be willing to bring
you had to check off what all you would be willing to bring.
I see.
really there wasn't any problem with,
that's the reason it ended up in a church because,
there was just so many of them.
it turned out so much better like that.
Because ahead of time how many people to expect.
if there was a sickness or something like that, you're not going to lose
that many.
No that would just be a few.
how about because of divorce and stuff like that?
my parents are divorced,
they are both remarried
I don't know.
if you wanted them both to come,
then that down on the list
the one that sent their invitation to them,
and ask for their information.
To send back to those other people.
kind of in control over who comes. just from my family.
once it went to oldest people then they knew who they wanted to invite,
then, they sent their little things to us.
it was up to me,
whether I wanted my kids and, family to come.
I see.
I see,
that's a pretty good idea to do it that way.
it never did,
if I didn't want somebody to come, then I just wouldn't send them one of the questionnaires.
there really wasn't a problem that way.
that's a real good idea.
I tell you what, that's the neatest book we've got,
I bet.
course it
they charged us, I think five or six dollars, I can't remember
that we paid for the book to be printed.
a hard back book, it's just folder type thing.
it has the entire,
it has everybody that you could ever imagine,
How neat.
and some you couldn't .
I know, that's really neat.
That's really neat.
it will be something my kids will have,
I was just thinking of that.
What you could tell your kids.
Because if you stop and think,
I don't know if you're like me,
I know very little about before my grandparents.
little about it.
I just,
the thing is I know a lot of stories,
I can't remember who it was about.
My grandparents told us when I was growing up and even when I was an adult
they still tell all kinds of stories about their parents and their cousins and their best friends, cause they all grew up in New York City,
these stories
I have no idea who it was that was in those stories.
I couldn't give an accurate,
I couldn't tell my kids what, those people were like,
I just remember they had some funny stories,
I don't know who it was.
Maybe what you could do if you couldn't get into a full family reunion,
and you wanted to go back some,
usually when you find out some information from your parents,
Yeah .
then else that can tell you something else about these,
All right.
kind of camping is there in Texas?
are quite a few,
there's a couple of national parks, I guess, that you can camp at.
most of them have pretty good facilities.
I don't know if the camping that I've done is really roughing it without whole lot of stuff.
you do, backpacking and the like?
done a little bit of that, mainly just, camping out at the state parks,
I've been to a couple in Texas
there's some real nice ones in Arkansas.
I think Arkansas has one of the best parks departments around.
Is the Ozarks in Arkansas?
part of them are.
that's probably a pretty nice place to go .
they've got, real nice lake system, around their parks.
One of them, (( the gray )) , it's real nice there, a bunch of lakes around it,
there's a golf course and, just a whole bunch of camping sites.
What about you,
where have you,
I've been camping for years, not on a regular basis
I first started camping out in the desert in California.
And then sometimes in the mountains also in California
then I moved to North Carolina
didn't camp for a long time,
I started to, go camping again kind of in conjunction with white water rafting,
I'd go up somewhere and camp overnight and then do some rafting.
maybe camp another night and drive home.
pretty good
I went out and bought a whole bunch of camping gear
I still do it once in a while.
I think we've collected stuff off and on over the years.
The more times we did it, the more serious we get about it.
is Raleigh, in North Carolina?
in terms of north, south I would say it's, more towards the northern border of the state and pretty much in the eastern half of it.
what i ,
(( Are )) you kind of away from the Blue Ridge Mountains,
an area.
actually Blue Ridge in Virginia are closer to Raleigh.
They're about three hours away if you go due north.
(( of ))
the Blue Ridge in North Carolina I think are much nicer
you can pick those up going west,
then you're talking about six to eight hours.
The way it works.
nice place to go and camp,
there's some pretty decent campgrounds (( although )) , of North Carolina takes,
they probably just don't spend as much money as a lot of other states might.
my wife's from the western part of Virginia,
we've been down the parkway a lot,
I didn't know camping areas there were along there.
I think there's quite a few.
I can't say I've checked them all out though.
it like camping in the desert and California,
that seems,
like a challenge.
it's kind of incredible,
it's really, really nice.
I like it better than almost anything I've ever done.
Just the sky is so amazing.
you really can probably count thousands of stars,
just kind of nice.
I like the,
I think the desert has a rare kind of beauty which, a lot of people don't realize,
they hear desert
they think of scorpions and snakes and sand and being real dry, and lack of water,
course it, it has all of those qualities
it also has a certain quality of beauty that you just don't find anyway else except in a desert.
it's pretty nice.
movie, THE DOORS, has nice desert scenes,
those guys all go camping out in the desert.
Of course, they drag a lot of drugs with them
shots pretty nice
it's sort of like that,
it's just almost surreal, in some places.
It's very pleasant.
Are the temperatures real extreme there
They can be,
choose your season carefully and know what's going to happen.
(( I've been )) camping in Death Valley,
one doesn't go in July .
it's beautiful in February.
it's just beautiful.
The days, get up into the high eighties, maybe the nineties
quite bearable
the nights are reasonably warm, sixties or seventies.
It's just great.
It's really very nice.
we've talked about planning a trip up through,
I have a sister in law that lives and into Colorado and the Grand Canyon area.
I when I'm going to get a chance to do that
pretty nice.
camping on the south rim the Grand Canyon.
That's okay.
A lot of people like to go down and camp down inside,
I was just too lazy that trip to do all that walking,
especially with my gear.
(( I'll bet )) .
(( That )) thing you said about the stars is really true
when you're close to a big city like Dallas, lights kind of wash,
wash off the star
it's nice get away.
It's just amazing,
much you miss.
it really is.
I don't think I ever see the Little Dipper,
you hear people talk about the Little Dipper.
. huh.
I don't think I ever see it except when I go get out of the city and go camping in the desert or the mountains.
Otherwise it's just too faint .
I guess we've talked as much as we need to on the subject.
I think we fulfilled our obligation.
thanks for calling,
nice talking to you.
it was good talking to you (( Robert )) .
bye bye.
Bye bye.
Stephanie, what's your position on gun control?
on a scale of one to ten, being ten, no, kind of legislation and zero being, total ban, I probably would lean more towards six or seven.
I feel like a total ban on guns is just going to put the guns in the hands the criminals.
I lived in Massachusetts for two years
they have a total ban on guns
I saw that, it didn't stop crime in that state.
was that just on handguns or was that on rifles?
kind of firearms.
there's was a mandatory jail sentence if you were caught, with a firearm
also I think there was a fine.
that didn't help at all?
I don't,
crime is not any better or any worse,
shouldn't say I don't know if it was any worse,
it certainly didn't get any better.
I usually just,
I'm trying to think of,
I guess I would tend myself to be more towards three,
where I don't think you should necessarily ban guns means,
you should definitely have the character search and the seven day holding period and things along that nature,
you shouldn't be able to go out there and just buy one right off the shelf.
I agree with that.
think that law on who can buy a gun way too lax.
I think that kind of control good,
trying to think of how many times you make the statement just to kind of exam it a little bit
know that any statement in absoluteness is not necessarily true,
only the guns were in the hands of the criminals,
how many times,
I guess I have never heard of robbery being foiled or spoiled because the person who's being robbed had a gun.
maybe they just don't report those
I'm not sure
I can't think of ever hearing on the news or whatnot or hearing or knowing anybody who was being robbed
good thing they had their gun on them
thwarted the robbery attempt.
I'm not really sure,
own a gun,
I don't think I probably ever would, although I would like to know how to handle one,
should learn how to handle one.
you just never know when you might come into contact with one.
were you brought up in a family that hunted
nobody in my family hunted,
my father guns when I was in high school because he got them from a friend who lived in Massachusetts .
We lived in New Hampshire at the time.
How about that.
he lived in Massachusetts and had to get rid of all his guns,
we ended up, with these guns,
only experience with a gun was shooting a pistol and not knowing how to hold it right
the hammer came back and hit me in the thumb and blood squirted everywhere.
that was really the only experience that I've had with guns
it kind of scared me.
I think that if I learn how to use one, feel better.
I've also always thought about the idea, most sports, which are the N R A and people (( have )) their thing,
if you ban guns, you're just banning recreation, the sport of hunting, things of that nature.
Most of that's done with rifles and such. though there's, probably I'm sure some sector that does it with handguns.
just by the mere fact of outlawing handguns, would make it so that it would be not as conspicuous,
you couldn't be inconspicuous,
when you walked into a store (( stuff )) like that,
you could see someone coming or dressed inappropriately,
if they had to have a rifle or was,
made it more difficult to get a handgun.
of course, in this world anytime you've freedom you can be able to get anything you want.
that's true.
I guess to make it more difficult for the person who's just so irate and upset and, temporarily a little bit, offset or off keel,
I don't know if that's a large percentage of, crime or not
I guess it would be some.
think definitely,
today they just introduced what's called the Brady bill. The seven day mandatory waiting period,
on getting any guns.
I think that,
I would definitely support that.
Shoot that's a good idea.
I agree the thing that scares me, though about where some sort of legislation
coming from the north east, I'm just not used to seeing, these,
know this may sound kind of stereo typical
the cowboys with the gun racks in the back of their trucks.
That's kind of scary to me
that kind of, to me it is more like (( vigilantism )) .
it kind of scares me especially with all the shootings that have been going on,
in L A, on the freeways,
that's crazy .
you come here the Dallas area,
believe that people should be allowed to carry guns in their vehicles.
that's wild.
especially not in the back window,
for everybody to see.
That is kind of wild.
that's all very interesting .
thanks for talking.
you're welcome.
Good bye.
bye bye.
There we go.
Dodgers fan from way back.
how way back,
late fifties, early sixties.
Wally Moon moon shots and all that.
What's that?
coliseum, Wally Moon and all that.
it's a,
living just west of Baltimore, and Frederick, which is also just west of Baltimore, has a minor league team.
Wally Moon is the manager of them.
Is that right?
he's still kicking around.
That's interesting.
also lived eight years in Ohio before away to college,
I used to go watch the Toledo Mudhens.
I saw them,
I was out there last Summer,
I saw a game at Ned Skelton.
Is that the stadium?
I couldn't tell you for sure.
It's been a long time.
there used to be a, race track.
it was,
that was impression I got when I was there
I think that's right.
had a lot of fun
I like minor league baseball, a lot.
It's cheaper for one thing .
that's true.
I think, I've kind of become a Rangers fan over the last eleven years since I've been here.
they've led the American league in batting, fielding and pitching,
they've never been able to do more than one of those in given year.
Yes .
I think they're in for a odd year this year,
I don't understand why Encovilla got released.
I don't either.
the guy's twenty, twenty five home rums, maybe thirty, eighty some R B I s.
can't field
he strikes out a lot,
he's done that for five years.
Why get rid of him now?
has become very decent fielder.
He's not liability to be.
he fits right in that hit home runs and strike out a lot.
of course, get a guy like Cecil Fielder,
if he strikes out a lot, so what.
with Detroit, they can get away with one guy like that.
were in Detroit, I would start building the team around Fielder.
that doesn't mean get three other guys who hit, all they can do is hit home runs and strike out
which they did.
I think the key L A this year is whether Oral Herschiser can come back.
I think the pitching's deep enough that it doesn't matter.
It may be.
like them a lot.
I think they're going to go all the way.
by saying I like them, I like their chances.
actually don't like the Dodgers,
I'm a Giants fan
from way back.
picking up Darrell Strawberry didn't hurt.
Butler didn't hurt either.
Bobby Ojeda didn't hurt
who's the last one.
Bobby Ojeda.
They got him from the Mets for Hubie Brooks.
he's pretty decent pitcher.
Yes he is.
he (( )) .
that guy (( )) , the short stop, is going to be good.
it should be an interesting year.
I'm looking,
I've already been to one game,
I should have been to two
Are you an Orioles fan?
team I live and die with is the Red Sox, mostly die,
I go to the Orioles since they're here,
do enjoy them.
I've had an opening day on Monday.
I kind of wish that they had inter league play, like they do in all the other sports so I could see some of the National League teams here once in a while.
(( )) How far is Houston?
three hundred miles.
keep forgetting how big states are out there sometimes.
pretty lucky because if I want to see a National League team, I can usually go up to Philadelphia.
There you go.
the Cardinals and Cubs last year, and a bunch of teams the year before.
Boy, you are a baseball fan, aren't you.
yeah .
I try to see whatever I can.
I've been to thirty or forty games each of the last few years.
hope I'm going to do it this year because, having a kid this fall,
it's like
All right.
so much for going to lots of baseball games.
do it while you can.
it's been good talking with you.
good talking with you.
you'll be happy I think in October when the Dodgers win.
I wouldn't mind it.
upset probably even though my prediction will be right .
God bless
good talking with you.
good talking with you.
Take care.
Bye bye.
Do you want to start?
G ,
I'm trying to think what I've seen lately.
we ,
we just finished watching, TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES on tape, .
Did you watch DANCES WITH WOLVES,
did you see the movie?
seen that,
Did you like it?
it was great,
have you seen it?
I thought it was very well done.
How about GHOST?
saw, an, we liked it
I didn't think it was as good as all the, hype was about it.
I feel the same way about that too.
It was okay.
I don ,
couldn't see it worth getting a nomination for, best picture.
wh ,
let's see,
the most recent ones that I've seen are those two, GHOST and, DANCES WITH WOLVES,
I rent, videos,
do you?
we just,
watch many?
on wh ,
Do you like the classics like, GONE WITH THE WIND and, the older movies.
I'd like to see those,
keep telling myself that I should see some day that I haven't seen, are classics,
I've never seen CITIZEN KANE,
that was good.
CASABLANCA and never seen GONE WITH THE WIND.
I think I've seen most of Humphrey Bogart's movies, but, a long time ago,
the MALTESE FALCON and all those,
def ,
we saw part of THE AFRICAN QUEEN T V a couple of years ago,
that was good,
I've been wanting to see all of it
walk into the video store
we're like why don't we go see this now ,
it's true.
I think ,
one of the movies we saw recently, we saw, MISERY.
I didn't see that one.
That was good,
it was great.
you think, because it was by Stephen King it would be really gory
there's only one,
there's a couple scenes, the end some blood and everything
there's one really bad scene where there's not blood but it's pretty graphic .
a really good movie,
is that the one where, the guy gets captured by that women?
he's a writer
she's his biggest fan
she's also ,
on the nutso side.
Did you see PACIFIC HEIGHTS?
we haven't,
I saw that one,
that one wasn't that great either.
it wasn't?
I didn't think so,
Oka ,
I heard mixed reviews, of that,
we s ,
How about SILENCE OF THE LAMBS?
on our list of things to see .
I know,
wanted to see,
was curious if you had seen it
N ,
our big thing is,
prices up here
I think it's like six bucks now in the theaters,
(( )) it's like,
a lot of things we try to catch at the dollar theater or matinees
a lot of other stuff we just wait until it comes out on tape.
That's us too,
I know, it's too bad that they've gotten so expensive.
Ye ,
one movie we saw in the last couple of months that we really enjoyed was, EDWARD SCISSORHANDS.
have you seen that?
it was great .
it was,
I thought it was kind of maybe for kids more, than ad ,
an odd film
it's really interesting that,
I like the director a lot, a guy named Tim Burton.
Did you ever see the movie BEETLEJUICE?
part of it,
ok ,
I never really watched the whole thing.
se ,
liked BEETLEJUICE you'll probably like EDWARD SCISSORHANDS,
if you didn't like BEETLEJUICE you'll probably won't like EDWARD SCISSORHANDS.
Burton's kind of, e ,
he's, a very man
I think he's very interesting
I liked those two movies of his a lot.
He did BATMAN also, which, .
that was pretty good, though,
It was good,
he was,
When you think of what it takes to make some of those kind of movies,
You see it for, a couple of hours or an hour
it really,
there's a lot in it when you look at the scenery and the cars,
and all the different stuff like that,
Whose your favorite actress or actor?
don't really know,
I like Costner a lot
baseball fan
after BULL DURHAM and FIELD OF DREAMS,
That was good,
I saw that movie too.
That was very good.
Which one?
FIELD OF DREAMS.
FIELD OF DREAMS was good,
think, I liked the other movies he's done.
NO WAY OUT was really good
did you ever see SILVERADO?
was that with?
let's see.
Danny Glover, Scott Glen, Kevin Kline, Brian (( Dennehy )) , Jeff Goldblum's in.
John (( Kreas )) is in it if you don't blink.
the nam ,
title sounds familiar,
I'm trying to thi ,
a big western,
I think Roseanne (( Arquett )) was in it too, another one that if you blink you'd miss her.
it was,
I think it was a three hour movie or two and a half hours,
it was one of those ones that could have been four hours if they hadn't cut a lot out.
really good .
might have seen part of that because the name sounds familiar although remember, I think in, with him in it.
How about REVENGE,
did you see that with him?
I didn't,
is that any good?
With, Anthony Quinn.
I thought it was,
I like everything he's done so far.
it's, one of those movies that it's not a great movie
it was okay.
we were in the video store today
somebody was recommending it to somebody.
people who run the video store was recommending it to somebody else.
not a bad movie.
I'll have to catch it one of these days.
You sa ,
said you seen NO WAY OUT?
that was excellent.
that was very good.
he was in THE UNTOUCHABLES, too.
that's another one I wanted to see.
Tha ,
in fact, that was advertised not too long ago.
it was on,
it was on one of the networks, I think last weekend.
I know I saw, something about it.
or two weeks ago.
wish, I'd seen it it was originally in the theaters
part of it again.
I like Sean Connery,
it's really silly that I enjoy him a lot
really enjoyed him in everything I've seen him in, a guy named Charles Martin Smith.
I don't know him.
you've probably seen him
just, an,
that's who the guy is.
Do you remember,
did you ever see AMERICAN GRAFFITI?
don't think so.
Did you ever see the movie STAR MAN.
in STAR MAN, he was the guy chasing after, Jeff Bridges and Karen Allen, or Nancy Allen.
w ,
short nerdy guy with glasses.
don't know why but he's always a lot of fun in every movie he's in.
He was in the UNTOUCHABLES.
He was the accountant .
I know who you mean.
He was in, HONEY DON'T SHRINK THE KIDS, wasn't he?
you're thinking of Rick Moranis.
He looks like Rick Moranis
he's not .
se ,
all right,
that's the one I was thinking of.
seen quite a few movies,
enjoy them.
I think that, kind of good entertainment.
escape type of thing.
How about some of the ads,
do you go by the ads when you look at them, or the reviews?
Do they influence you a lot.
a little of,
e ,
e ,
a review usually won't make me go see a movie I hadn't already wanted to see.
Did you see GOODFELLAS?
it's o ,
I want to see it.
pretty good.
we want to see GODFATHER PART THREE also
girlfriend's seen part one and part two although she saw them years ago,
I've never seen either of the GODFATHER movies
we're probably going to rent those some time and then try to see GODFATHER PART THREE somewhere.
I was just going to say, you should see those, if you can.
read the book it's, even better.
The book was excellent.
I haven't,
never read it.
I was a little disappointed in the third on ,
it's GODFATHER THREE.
It was not bad
I expected more, I think.
We just rented, a couple weeks ago, a movie called THE FRESHMAN,
it's got Matthew Broderick in it and, Marlon Brando.
Brando does a parody of the character he played in THE GODFATHER.
one of the reasons why, THE GODFATHER's been on our minds lately.
there's a bunch of scenes THE GODFATHER that's used because Matthew Broderick's going to film school.
in his classes they're running a bunch of scenes from THE GODFATHER
he's running into Marlon Brando who is playing, head.
it was a fun movie.
How about Tom Cruise, do you like his stuff?
I liked RAINMAN,
it was interesting that he was doing som ,
that was good,
I liked RAINMAN, too.
being from Baltimore, of course, I'm a big Barry Levinson fan since, he's done a bunch of Baltimore movies.
n ,
Barry Levinson did, DINER and TINMAN, and AVALON which are all set in Baltimore.
they sound familiar.
I probably saw parts of those.
a lot of times a movie
I'm tired
next thing you know,
especially if there's commercial in it .
Ye ,
we ,
the titles might sound familiar
I really don't know what they're all about.
Ye ,
of the three of those, DINER's probably the best.
all pretty good,
DINER is really worth seeing.
Is that the one set in the fifties, or sixties.
late fifties,
Late fifties,
I think I saw that one.
How about Meryl Streep,
I don't know,
I'm not a real, great football follower,
I guess, there are two basic teams that I seem to follow every year.
One is the Dallas Cowboys
the other is the Oklahoma Sooners.
being a native Okie, like to keep up with what the homeboys are doing.
I see,
you make it, to that Longhorns Sooners game?
Every year.
it's funny.
I got out and got my bachelor's degree in seventy three and, never went to a game there and have never gone to a game since.
How about that.
I always enjoyed watching them,
I just
growing up in Oklahoma, there it was always the home team, kind of like Dallas is around here.
there's always been an interest there.
it's kind of same for me,
I grew up in southern New Jersey
the local team was Philadelphia.
they were thirty miles right up the river
I'm still pretty much an Eagle fan, I guess.
I guess you keep those things you grew up with.
I worked in, Missouri for a while
I was probably the only one in the room several times when we were watching football on T V when the Cowboys were playing the Saint Louis Cardinals
I was rooting for the Cowboys.
they were kind of closer to home I struck up with them.
I really don't know what's going to take place with the Cowboys this year.
Everybody keeps talking about the reconstruction they're going through and new players and how next year is going to be even bigger and better than the previous year.
In a way that happened this past season,
I think that's quite a bit of optimism around here that still there's a chance that maybe, these guys are right, maybe they will come through do something this year.
I look for it to be a pretty good year.
Boy sure did have a big turn around from a couple of years ago.
They did,
they got rid of a lot of familiar names and got a lot of names in that we familiar with.
Some of them turned out to be pretty good players,
some of them didn't
maybe the stuff that, Jerry Jones is talking about the construction and redefining the team and maybe the effort might be starting to pay off.
At least we hope it will.
keep waiting for the Eagles to get over the hump.
They make it to the playoffs it seems for the last few years
they just have done absolutely nothing when they got there .
they've got a lot of the tools to do it,
if they can't just put it together,
they have got the quarterback there in Randal Cunningham, who's just, phenomenal,
too streaky it seems.
they have always been a really strong team.
without a whole lot of big name players.
They have got a few anchors on offense and defense
managed with those guys
I don't know.
Once the pressure gets turned on seem to loose it.
I guess, yeah.
that's the typical trait of the Dallas Cowboys.
And the Oklahoma Sooners.
It's funny, over the years.
I guess since Staubach left, they haven't been able to,
keep it going.
It's been ever since he left.
I don't know why it's so hard to find, a good quarterback these days.
says a lot ability, though I think.
For Staubach's,
he was one of the few who come through in history that can really perform,
we hope,
every team hopes their current quarterback is going to pull them through.
In a way Aikman has done some of that.
the guy winds up getting hurt every other game.
tell you, it's difficult in that guy's position coming into that because there, he was just so highly touted by the press and everybody expected so many big things,
they did.
They put a lot of pressure on him from the outside and from the inside.
it's funny watching play,
he's probably like a lot of quarterbacks,
when the pressure is really on when it's down to the last few minutes of the game for the season is when the guys seem to really do their best.
I haven't quite figured that out,
if they figure they have got it won or if there's no real hurry because the first three quarters or, something happens that that adrenalin starts flowing. They say, hey, we got to do something now. And then start playing the game the way the game should be played toward the last few minutes.
I don't know
I'm looking for a good year.
I guess we're always looking for a good year.
obviously though, do you think they're going to do anything in the playoffs to make it to the Super Bowl this year
like to do that this year?
I don't think the Cowboys have got a chance.
I think they will probably win one or two more games than they did this year,
they'll get close to it.
They'll probably get everybody's hopes up and blow it toward the end.
who's going to beat them?
Who are they going to blow it to?
that's a good question.
I'm figuring the Eagles or possibly San Francisco
I'm not real sure.
Boy, they'd some big changes, speaking of them.
They did.
I don't know how these changes are going to help or hinder the team, sometimes it brings in new motivation
all you can do is get out of the way because here they come.
I'm sure, my sentimental favorite would have to be Philadelphia,
sure am scared of them Giants .
that's true.
Those guys are tough.
They are tough
they're big,
they're mean
they are going to come right through you if you don't do something.
sure was a fun Super Bowl to watch this year.
I wasn't pulling for either team.
that was just a good football game.
it's funny,
You like to pull for the underdog
for a long time I was pulling for Denver.
Marino makes me just crazy mad sometimes, because of some of the stupid stuff he does,
he's a good quarterback.
He's got a good arm,
sometimes it's too good because he throws too hard.
L A you mean?
L A,
Boy, speaking of Denver, on another subject, I've been up there five times in the last three, four weeks.
we've been trying get this new D N B two thousand printer up and running.
Has it been, snowing up there?
I was just up there,
I just got back last night around eleven thirty or so,
it was about seven inches of snow on the ground.
it snowed all day.
that will make the skiers happy.
it snowed that much in Denver
they got that much up in the mountains, just west of there.
you bet.
up around the Keystone and Copper Mountain, those guys will love that.
good to talk to you.
enjoyed it Bob.
You guys have a good time, keep those printers coming.
we'll do it.
All right,
Go ahead.
do I feel that the Soviet Union, as such, is still a threat to the civilized western world?
my reasons are based upon not only but up against some of the, fun and exciting things I ran into during my six years as a soldier in the Fifth Special Forces Group.
I guess I don't see them as much of a threat as they used to be,
I think just the instability of the country right now is, sort of scary.
that's what makes it a powder keg.
I'll go back in time a little bit, to about eighty one,
when my first real involvement with the military started.
naturally we were at the time,
the Soviet Union was considered to be the big military power and the big threat.
we got of information as well as indoctrination on Soviet tactics and weapons.
I went to Lebanon in eighty three, before the marines ever got there, with the U N Peace Keeping Force. with the training I received prior to going there, with captured weapons we kept running up against.
Chinese made copies.
These were Soviet made, top of the line, fresh out of the box, A K forty sevens.
As well as a lot of the explosives we were running into.
In Granada, in October, twenty fifth, eighty three, we invaded the place.
Sure there were Cuban soldiers there,
there was also a bunch of Russian advisors that were damn good shots.
The team I was with, we jumped in on the western tip the island down on Point Salinas.
for every Cuban there was at least five Russian advisors.
they were all shooting state of the art Soviet weapons.
In eighty four, I was down in Central America, as an advisor to the Honduran Army.
Again we were running up against Cubans quite a bit, plus Soviet advisors.
the equipment we were capturing and taking from the Nicaraguans, was brand new, out of the crate, Soviet made material.
Do I consider them a threat?
They have a university in Moscow called the Patrice de Lamumba University.
About like A and M or U T, where they're teachings subjects like that, they're teaching terrorism.
Some of the people we went up against in Lebanon were graduates from that place.
let me tell you, they are nothing nice to go up against.
I'm surprised during this Iraqi crisis we didn't have more incidents than they did.
These guys are top of the line.
graduate from there, they can pull terrorist actions anywhere in the free world.
they are very, very good at what they do.
until I see the entire, quote, old guard completely roll over and disappear, preferably buried, I still consider them a threat.
Their military is different from ours, to where there are extremist that actually control tens and thousands of troops.
irregardless of what Soviet policy is, they're going to do what the general tells them.
I guess that's what concerns me the most. Is so unstable that somebody like that could make, decisions that would jeopardize a lot of people.
it's watching the different Soviet states, Albania, Lithuania, doing their little revolts down there.
Each one of those sectors has got a Soviet general over the troops that are there.
So far they haven't run into the real psychos yet.
There's probably five or six, which would be an equivalent of our joint chiefs of staffs, that are in positions over some of these Soviet states.
If uprisings in their sectors, going to be a total blood bath.
it looks like it's come close to that as it is.
they're showing remarkable restraint.
They get real nasty, the (( hyundee )) helicopters come out
they, would level entire areas.
you're from the Dallas area, right?
basically the size of, the area around Richardson?
You put five Soviet (( hyundee )) helicopters in the air, they can level the entire area
there won't be anything left alive.
they can do that in about four minutes.
they've got entire squadrons of those just standing by.
They used them in Afghanistan, did well considering the terrain they were flying in.
on a highly populated area, like some of the Soviet cities would be, with the weaponry that's attached on those things, there is no place to hide.
If the bombs don't get you, if the bullets don't get you, the nerve gas definitely will get you.
The only drawback on that little piece of machinery is they only got five minutes of air time.
They drink that much fuel.
Were you,
have you,
I take it you haven't spent any time in the military?
I haven't.
As a civilian that's never been attached to any form of the military,
I know a lot of this stuff that I was involved in, never did make the newspapers.
during that same time frame, didn't you get some feeling, that, they're getting all these weapons and stuff?
Didn't it bug you a little bit why they kept coming up with all this stuff?
You mean most recent conflict?
In any of them since eighty one.
I'm a little bit shocked to what the U S has done in terms of selling to Iraq in the past ten to fifteen years.
I think kind of shoot ourselves in the foot that way too.
It's bad enough that the Soviets do it.
It all boils down to, whether it's our side, their side,
it's a matter of money,
to a certain extent.
The deal the Iraqi's have with the Russians was for oil.
It's scary to know that they're supplying that many people with weapons. Especially when it's to the south of us.
the ones to the south are more regional conflict.
They're not really that worried about invading north.
They're more interested in,
they've got a screwed up situation, I'll give them that. From Mexico all the way down into and South America.
The situation down there is weird
it's very screwed up.
Inflation is out of this world
the governments, which our government has technically supported for years, are corrupt as all get out.
generally the people,
are getting screwed,
they're tired of it,
they're willing to try anything to get out from under it, even if that means going to communism.
I think Russia is getting to the point where about to do something to get out of communism.
I guess I'd would like to see somebody like Yeltsin to get more power.
I think Gorbachev has about had his day.
Unfortunately, Yeltsin's got too many connections with the old guard.
That's the only drawback that I see with the entire thing.
Gorbachev has made his attempt
he's had his problems with some of the old guard himself.
Yeltsin's in tight with the old guard.
it may be trying to choose between the lesser of two evils,
at this point.
True .
I don't know,
I sure wouldn't turn my back on them.
You mean,
I understand when Europe after the Berlin Wall went down,
I thought that was great.
by no means do I endorse or approve pulling everybody out.
It may be a much reduced force than what we used to have over there.
you still better have the key players in place, if something does go down. Even if it's a regional conflict.
If United States is going to flex its muscle and be the super power that it is, not only does talk the talk, but it's got to be able to walk the walk.
It's got to have the stuff to what it's saying.
If you've only got a token force there, you can't hold your ground.
At least they're learning a little bit from history.
this is an appropriate topic the day after Earth Day,
what do you think is, in the air?
I have trouble with the chemical plants and things like that think they put off so much
they're not regulated enough.
(( )) , that's me too.
on channel thirteen, they had programs the day before,
I'm not sure that about yesterday, we didn't really watch it too much yesterday,
the day before they had a lot of programs about the environment and, how we're affecting the Earth and things by what we do,
as the people
they mentioned sulfur and carbon dioxide a lot,
that actually, as our population increases and, our cars, our number of cars increase per the population, that's the problem. But also like you said the industry pollution
that's placed on them better than it used to be
it's incredible that they're not made to regulate the amount of pollutants that they put into the air.
I can't (( stand that ))
I know for a fact that they get away with a lot that,
they're supposed to be regulated because plant, I don't know about T I but we have
a town adjacent to ours,
I know people that work there that,
of course, you wouldn't think Pillsbury would put out certain chemicals,
they put out toxic chemicals there just in some of what they do, to, make their dough and to,
clean out the flour and stuff like that,
it's incredible.
they said that a little creek that runs by them
some of the people that work there have told me that when they have inspectors coming they, shut down everything
they clean up their act, but on a normal basis dumping things,
that they're not supposed to be dumping,
I'm like, if they're getting away with it,
can you imagine,
Pillsbury plant
I can't imagine plants,
I wouldn't have thought that Pillsbury even had chem ,
those chemicals (( would )) not,
they have chemicals that they use to refine their flours with and stuff,
break the flours down
also do testing there,
I don't,
you consider, it's probably not radioactive
toxic anything that's classified that can damage the Earth.
there could be a lot of things that they could put, that chemical wise that they use to, that they are testing with,
like in,
that they're dumping.
In packaging
just goodness.
I don't think they do the packaging at this plant,
a lot of research
a lot of the refining up there
I'm not really,
what's it called when you do flour,
I'm not,
only thing I can think is bleaching
I don't know how they do the flour.
on the southwest side of Houston
we don't have that much as far as, (( aiming in )) the plants over on this, the east side does.
We've got Imperial sugar
right there on the creek also
they've been there for years.
you think about
it's probably a lot easier to detect things that go into the ground than it is maybe to just,
I'm not really sure
I would think it would be easier to detect those things because you could detect them down or such,
do, testing on the ground itself at that point,
when they pollute into the air movement through the air, it's going to move a lot of that off.
I don't see, how they can do some of the te ,
unless it just hangs there like in places where it's a lot of pollution, like in Los Angeles the bigger cities where tends to get stuck there,
you know, that you have a lot more particles in the air,
per particles in the surrounding community because it's not moved away,
I know that,
I worry every now and then,
we're still on a well water,
we're not on city water,
I think, what if somebody's dumped something back there in the, and no one knows about it and, it sinked in through the ground and all that,
I know out in some,
I'm not sure,
I can't remember the name of the county
where Stillwater is or,
I'm not sure,
I know it,
I think it's,
I know we have a piece property there,
it's called Dublin,
it's in Dublin, Texas.
I'm not really sure what the county,
it's Stephen,
where Stephenville's at,
they've had a lot of problems because they've, introduced a lot of dairies there,
they have a lot of cattle in the area,
per lot,
they've got a lot of head of cattle because dairies they don't
it's not like it was a big ranch where they let the cow roam around free,
they've got to have them there to be able to milk them.
I read in this article, where, one cow like a hundred or so pounds of manure.
One cow,
I was like, my God,
this thing says people think, cow manure is good for fertilizer
when you get that much manure it says it becomes a real problem because
when, you buy cow manure at the store they've added stuff to it
they've added humus and stuff that,
breaks it down,
this, this article said that they've got a real problem that, you've got toxins bacteria in the manure that is,
what it's doing is it's going through,
they don't have a very deep, o ,
they're water,
they're natural water,
I forget what that's called with,
it's a water,
it's below the surface
it's not very far down,
all this stuff is seeping through to the water,
afraid that, within a certain amount of years, in that town will be totally polluted,
It will.
they won't be able to have any drinking water because they will have, so that too many toxins and bacterial growth,
the gr ,
I'm like my God,
introducing dairy farms,
in that one county.
ground will filter some of it but not all of it.
not when you figure,
I didn't realize produces that much manure
they were talking
These are (( well fed )) .
thousands of cows,
These are,
they were talking thousands cows in one little tiny area.
Good grief, these are well fed cows, ,
they are evidently.
a normal cow produces that much too,
they're just so spread out on ranches and stuff that it's not, a problem,
when they get them in these tiny little areas, they've got a real big problem,
said what they were doing was scraping it with bulldozers and stuff, and taking it to,
these ponds that they had to filter it with,
the ponds because they've had so much rain in the past few years, they just,
they overflow into creeks and stuff in the area.
that just creates,
it was just disgusting
it said the creeks will foam.
stand outside their houses and watch the creeks foam brown and all,
that's bad.
I'm just like, my gosh,
the smell is really bad they sa ,
, I was going to say, the air pollution alone there just from a hundred pounds of cow manure was going to be bad.
don't know
it really frightens me though as far as just air pollution itself
channel thirteen they're really, emphasizing the problem with acid rain,
keep putting that stuff into the air if we keep creating the problem and not doing anything about it it's really going to be a problem for, Earth, what the Earth is receiving back,
because how can you tell where it's going to come down at.
cutting the trees, that bothers me.
As far as, the
The rain forest and all.
we've been wanting to,
not me
it's been that we cut a few of the trees down here,
I'm like, no,
(( )) for what's cut down here, more will be cut down someplace else
it will just take that longer to grow back,
trees help so that,
, I don't,
they do because, what is it, carbon dioxide,
they use that where we can't synthesize it
they're synthesizing it for us.
(( believe me )) it's just so much better.
I knew,
I think there's lots done improve how things are done now.
I think we just have to,
I don't know personally,
I suppose, if you just make sure your car is,
is working properly
yo ,
they're suppos ,
nowadays they have the emission controls on them
I think thing is just keep on back, as far as,
seems like they've only just really started as far as the environment saying,
okay, we're really going to get involved
really becoming a problem.
By the year two thousand there will,
are we going to have,
what kind of results are we going to have for the environment.
what will we ...
I don't know how much I know about this subject .
I don't know if I know anything or not,
got some opinions on it.
Go ahead.
those type of people have the most opinions, ones that don't know anything .
Yeah .
I've had teenagers
I now have grandchildren that are teenagers,
I don't know that it might do them a little bit of good to see the world from a different perspective.
I think this "me" generation has gone far too far.
the young people are overly impressed.
I think it wouldn't hurt them to step back from themselves just slightly and see things from a disadvantaged viewpoint.
That's true.
I personally know nothing about the Peace Corps though.
me either.
went to college and then started working and then got married
they have,
I read somewhere,
out on a limb here, some type of college, volunteer work for teachers, that they are straight out of college
they do one year of volunteer work teaching in the, lower income brackets of the United States.
Have you ever heard about that one?
I haven't,
I know that, my sister,
I have a twin sister
when they graduated she went to, teach in a small town down in south Texas
I know, that if you have college notes, if you teach in a lower income bracket where they don't pay as much and they cancel part of your, your college note or whatever.
If it's really lower paying job, where in a small town you don't obviously you don't need as much as far as live.
this is money that she's borrowed to form her college education?
she only taught there one year
she got credits for it?
That's very interesting.
I think it would be,
I know that also one of my cousins who, he is in the therapy type (( thing ))
he was,
some group paid part of his college income
he was required to go back and work for a certain number of years in this town at,
it's a nursing home or something like that.
I think that's a good way come back to these small towns to work by helping people that normally might not be able to go to college and get the type of degree they want.
I think that is an excellent program,
I really do.
I like that.
beneficial to the small towns too because,
they a disadvantage that we wouldn't understand because we're in the Metroplex.
As far as doctors and all that stuff, yeah.
we had some really major health problem that required a specialist, we could find one it wouldn't be convenient,
we could find one.
We wouldn't have to drive and spend the night someplace or something like that.
can see the advantage to that one.
The Peace Corps itself is really dying out, isn't it?
I really don't know that much about it,
I think of the Peace Corps, more like the sixties and that kind of stuff when,
It's still in existence.
don't they go into other countries and stuff?
I want to believe they go into other countries and teach them how to do things like farm,
dig their own wells, set up,
Things that make the,
their schools.
Make them more self supporting?
It's not a program to teach them to use the American money, it's a program to teach them to be more self reliant.
you're right,
I think it's a sixties program.
I think it was one of Kennedy's hot points that he,
that was his big deal.
it definitely would give a lot of the kids now that have everything given to them that they want to see what it's like if you don't have all the money and can't have what you want when you want it.
, I think singled out my grandchildren
pretty good,
along those lines as compared to what I have seen from other people's children and grandchildren, mine aren't really that bad,
at the same time I think it would do them a world of good.
there's a,
know that you could require everyone to,
Mandatory just like,
do that for,
like the draft.
to do it for a whole year,
or two years or something like that,
I don't know that that would work if,
Every time you,
somebody's, didn't really want to be there and didn't have,
They could buy their way out.
there would be loopholes just like there is in anything else .
figure a way around that one in a heartbeat.
, I'm wondering if there's another issue here,
maybe this is why this has died out.
Can you go into,
this wasn't the question
may be the more of the issue versus should young adults,
can they go in there and can anyone go
the (( Kurdish )) community is a little bit extreme at this time,
I think Bangladesh would have been a good example or really desperate situation
teach them to farm teach them
it doesn't do any good.
I don't know that it does.
don't know that, if you step back from the current issue and look at it more intellectually, there are forever over, as long as we know there are races of people that are dropping out.
we're losing certain,
races of people.
There are people now that are obsolete point and fact like endangered species of animals, so there are (( quote )) tribes of people,
that are endangered or obsolete.
I'm just wondering if you're fighting a natural process there of being (( winnowed )) out.
There's a German word for it that's elegant,
I never can remember what it was,
being (( winnowed )) because where they are they're not adapted to their environment essentially.
one of the quick examples is the Aborigines.
when we were in Australia, ,
sad little things. I felt sorry for them. Because their society isn't there anymore,
their (( belief )) system and their structured of theirs, all the structures of their society are gone, essentially.
they're just kind of more like a side show than anything else
that's sad.
I don't think there's any way in and rescue those people,
I don't think you could have done it fifty or a hundred years ago either.
wondering if the Peace Corps is,
really an effective tool.
Down here with the Peace Corps we're talking about all these people that aren't even in our own country when there's enough people here that I think probably need help and,
Good point.
could be helped.
We've got enough a passport
there's plenty.
I think we ought to worry about our own species.
maybe rather than just, require somebody to join the Peace Corps for a year maybe during college, maybe have some kind of course where they'd be required to do some kind of community service type work, and help people in that area or people in the United States.
I wonder now in,
I've been out of school too long to answer this,
I wonder if there aren't some sociology courses.
There probably are,
I'm sure,
that's probably like people that do that the people that are going to go into social work and stuff
I think that it wouldn't really be half bad for everybody not to do something, and realize it's everybody's responsibility to, help these people,
no ,
I'm not saying just give them money
they have to be taught to be,
That's the last thing you want,
Yeah .
to do.
I know that's what my father in law was talking about, when you give these people money
, what was it
they were bringing up points asking as far as whether they need to give, more money to these people,
that's not really the answer, (( )) , because if they're alcoholics they'll just go out and spend,
that's exactly it.
it on, booze or something like that,
They're not going to take that money you give them and go try to figure out a way to dry out with it.
come on, let's be realistic,
that's just not realistic.
Or, to find a job where they can learn how to support themselves,
I guess we're getting kind of off the subject, , here,
we're not I don't think.
I think,
that's more realistic than making them go in the Peace Corps.
I think that's a lot more realistic.
think that we should be spending more time
again I don't think Peace Corps as successful now simply because fit the circumstance anymore.
we've got plenty,
in fact, we've got far too many.
You're in, what Flower Mound?
Flower Mound,
we're a little removed from Dallas and some of the areas where they probably have more of the homeless and that type of thing.
I was,
that's exactly what I was going to ask you.
have you been downtown recent ,
What kind of recycling programs do you have in Rowlett?
th ,
right now they've got a, kind of a central location off of the main highway,
they've got some great big bins there for newspaper, plastic, I think three bins for glass, white, green, and other combination there is.
I think they've got some kind of container for aluminum.
Plano's doing real good on that.
start off putting out great big huge garbage cans.
Which we're supposed to put all our week's garbage into it,
of course it doesn't fit right now.
now we start in May, breaking it down,
they're picking it all up.
they're going to by,
we have to separate our papers, and our glass,
they have one day for, everything you picked up from your yard,
we put that in disposable bags,
they pick that up on Monday.
it's really great.
I think it's marvelous.
that's good.
Rowlett had out a survey, not too long ago, in terms in how many people were interested in having pick up, I guess, on the days they do trash or something like that.
apparently a lot of people responded to it because they're going to do it.
I don't know soon they're going to do it, or how organized it's going to be,
supposed to initiate that in the next couple of months.
does your,
where you work, do they also have aluminum cans pickups and things like that?
I've never noticed that.
We don't have whole lot, because we're in a hospital setting,
most of the things we have are through our cafeteria.
down in the cafeteria do they have any place where you can put your, pop cans, and things like that?
only one pop machine
it's not accessible to the cafeteria now,
mainly what they serve in there is juice and coffee and tea.
you don't have much choice there.
No .
I work at, J C Penny
last week they brought,
they have a sign up that says for one full week
you bring in your old wire hangers
they're going to recycle them.
it's getting people clean out their closets and such.
the week before that, they said go through your cupboards and any food that is still good, bring it in
they brought it down to the shelters.
they have, one, two, they have three, I think, that I know of
for cans for people have pop,
they put them right near where they have the time cards.
it works great.
they have one in the room where the snack machines are too.
That's good.
they're really going at it,
I think it's marvelous because,
guess Rowlett's done a lot for the size town it is.
I think they're trying make some changes.
noticed at the library or someplace this past, month, month and a half ago, they were having a speaker, talk about doing lawn work and, important it is cut your lawn without a bag. Just to kind of mulch it,
rather than bag it up, because of grass that's being bagged and being hauled away by the garbage trucks and stuff,
it's, I guess a lot more to just mow the grass and let it work it's way back into the soil.
did you watch the program the other night on, was it SAVE AMERICA?
I saw part of that.
It was good.
The only thing I thought, that I haven't been trying, is when I, go to take a shower, to save the water,
and to put it on my plants. Which I had never thought about before.
I've already gone to,
I started years ago, I guess, not years ago,
I would say five years ago, turning off faucet,
in the sink when I brush my teeth.
I didn't realize that was the biggest waste of water.
That was surprising to me.
I missed that question, totally, really bad.
I'm trying to think,
I didn't miss too many,
I can't remember what my score was,
I did exceeding well.
I was surprised.
I didn't realize that our garbage isn't being decomposed.
That was a shocker to me.
there are a lot of things that aren't,
(( I'm )) ,
that's, one of the things I wonder about,
one of the questions was, do you think more should be done, or something else.
wonder about some of the that they don't take, like some of the plastics and things that they don't take. they couldn't do more recycling with those.
I was in, Bizmart the other day,
what I don't understand is there is recycled paper in there,
it cost more than regular paper.
it was only, I think, forty cents more, fifty cents more,
It upset me to realize
people aren't buying it,
the cost of it is higher.
I noticed that about things like
a lot of adds recently for organic fertilizers lawn additives and that type of thing,
the cost double or sometimes triple,
the regular buy.
in, in terms of that,
for the environment there's a good reason to do it,
the cost is kind of prohibitive.
that's recycling,
companies that do at least go into it,
I'd like to see subsidy by the government or something, or tax wise or something, heavily enough to where they could get their prices lower than regular.
that people would use this stuff over again.
it's a good idea.
It's like when he was saying, which one was recyclable, which was reusable,
the recycle ones are better to use,
lots of times you don't even see the signs on the bottles.
if we're going to really do something, they ought to put that stuff out bigger for people to see it.
I had to put my bifocals on to see it .
That's hard when you're in a grocery store and you're short anyway.
You have to get enough nerve to ask somebody to take something off the top shelf.
You haven't got enough nerve to say put it back,
it's not recyclable.
heard something stranger,
talk about bottles the other day the radio station, They were talking about the,
I think it's in Canada they're using, recyclable milk jugs, plastic milk jugs,
as reinforcement for roads.
For road repairs.
apparently don't break down very easily,
they don't expand contract when the weather changes,
this is kind of an unusual use for that type of thing.
along that same line, they said they were using,
what is, oh, I know,
it was toilets.
Smashing them up, because that stuff there is great road work.
I thought, that's good.
I saw recycling on tires between,
hoses were being used,
soaker hoses, made out of old tires.
What else,
something else was made out of old tires,
I was trying to remember what it was. I can't think of it now.
trying to get my, kids, to see different things that we could come up with for recycling purposes.
just anything, to, recycle rather than keep throwing it away,
my biggest problem is, I take the bags out of the store, buy the bags to bring the back,
I forget to bring them in the store.
I'm forever going back out to my car to pick up my bags to bring them and take my garbage back out.
I wish they'd really push this recycling bit, because how much stuff I actually throw away.
I think more people are aware of it, more they'll do.
I think that's just the biggest problem is keeping it front of the public so they understand how serious the problem is, and how important it is to do that.
what I'd like to see a little more.
I don't have any little tiny kids,
if they get the little tiny kids saving it now,
in five years, when they get bigger, it'll work a little bit more, too.
we've all got to do it right now.
I just,
I really amazed to find out that, eighty per cent are filled now, garbage fills.
In five years we're supposed to be at max.
I don't think I can keep my own garbage.
I might not have that much,
I wouldn't,
I started when I was in college.
they always offer credit cards for college students.
I went ahead, and accepted every one that I was offered.
Because I knew it would be easier to go ahead and get them and establish credit early.
around a lot of them,
I only use a few of them.
You have a lot of discipline.
They make it really easy for people get credit cards, especially college students.
I have, two daughters both are in college
in fact, one has finished now.
they both have a lot of credit cards.
they give you such high credit limits.
easy to get caught up in the minimum payment trap.
give you, the credit limit,
you're always up to that limit.
I have quite a few credit cards that I'm always almost up to the limit on most of them.
how a lot of people get into trouble.
two usually I'll have a balance on.
all of the others I just try to use kind of like you would an American Express card pay it off every month.
that way I feel like I'm getting, a thirty day loan.
I don't have to worry about, running them up too high, except at Christmas.
run up pretty good.
you have a lot of discipline.
trying my best right now to pay off some of mine.
I've paid off about four credit cards this year.
still I have some that up to the limit.
especially the Visa Card
that you can go and get cash on .
it seems like every time I'm short of cash, I just go it from Visa.
I've never used my Visa for cash before.
Can you use it at a bank machine
j ,
you can go in a bank and just hand them the Visa Card and say, "I want a cash advance."
if they've sent you number that you can use. personal identification number
that you can use in the, impact machines or whatever, you,
you can do that.
I have one that I don't have a pin number for.
sometimes you have to ask them for that.
I have one that, just gave me the pin number automatically.
we got,
funny you said that. Because in the mail one day that we hadn't even applied for.
a couple of weeks later pin numbers,
we got, a bill saying, the yearly fee, it was like forty dollars.
cut them up and sent them back because hadn't even applied for them,
we didn't want them.
had just automatically approved us and sent them without even contacting us.
wow! .
I thought, I don't know if I trust this or not .
do that a lot if you have good credit and you have been paying your bills on time.
everybody in the world will offer you credit card.
It's like, let's see if we can get her to run up her bills .
it's hard,
tempting when you see something to say, "Well, I'll just charge it."
sometimes I'll do that,
usually I, I will try to pay everything off the next month
the ones that usually have an outstanding balance all the time, pay more than the minimum payment.
Just like even that little bit helps.
the way the economy's going and inflation and the recession and all that, I think really need to try to stay out of debt as much as possible.
why really started to try pay off mine and get out of debt. Because we never know when we might, get laid off or
I know it.
Especially me.
I work for Texas Instruments,
they've a lot layoffs lately.
I work for T I too.
You do?
I think they're getting ready probably sell us out, our division.
Where are you?
In Johnson City, Tennessee.
Johnson City,
know they're selling out somebody in Colorado Springs.
announced that, didn't they?
kind of a bad time to be a slave to your credit cards.
certainly is.
worked on a time job, where I was a collector.
For, a jewelry company .
People, that
they just had this jewelry account.
It was Zales jewelry, in fact.
a whole bunch of peop ,
they have about a thousand collectors, I guess.
there's just so many people that have bought jewelry, which is really a luxury item
just can't pay for it.
you hear so many stories listening to them. Like, they lost their job
signed for a friend.
they got it in their name
got it for a friend
the friend
Didn't pay them.
wouldn't pay them.
now they're stuck with the bill,
it's ruining their credit
you really have to watch this
That's scary.
month all of these credit cards report to the credit bureau, Automatically, of them do.
I didn't realize that.
bad because if bill is due on the fifteenth
then y , you , you're not past due until the fifteenth of the next month.
pay one day after that fifteenth, you're not one day late,
you're thirty days late.
recognize any time difference, do they?
that's scary.
A , a ,
we need to watch our credit reports and all that kind of,
That's something I never thought about getting, checking with to see your credit report looked like.
can do that.
I believe it costs about ten dollars.
Might be worth it for peace of mind.
It is,
it is.
You might even find somebody's been reporting on you
you didn't even know it.
might think you're paying something on time
you, by that day
you're days is not real bad though anyway.
If you've got a charge off on your credit report or something like that.
That's when it really gets bad.
something you haven't paid in sixty days or ninety days, And things like that .
I think that Discover Card has a good idea with, giving you a little cash back incentive for each amount purchase. As long as you don't go crazy trying to get cash back.
since they don't have the yearly fee.
Do they charge a lot of interest on that card?
I don't know.
I don't,
gotten one.
Just because
I felt like with Visa and Mastercard and American Express you didn't need another one.
I would think it wouldn't be, much more than the eighteen or nineteen percent everyone else charges.
Yeah .
wouldn't be too bad.
always watch out for anybody who bills you out of Atlanta, Georgia.
there's a couple of other places that are able to charge us twenty one and twenty two percent interest.
I know, I had a charge with, Spiegel,
I hadn't read the, terms of the credit agreement really.
when I did, realized it just like I was never paying the balance off,
I looked at the credit card agreement one day,
it was like twenty three percent interest.
Holy cow!
that's the one bill that I and paid up.
That's awful.
I've always watched it since then.
You really have to watch those interest rates.
there's no point in giving them any more money than we have to.
That's true.
they can't bill you any higher than eighteen percent, I think, Texas.
that's great.
are a couple of states that can.
one to watch out for is anybody that bills you out of Georgia.
I'll try to remember that one.
let's see.
I was trying to think if there was anything else .
worst problem I ever had a credit card though was, I got item on my bill that I had never purchased.
I had ordered a sofa and had filled out the paperwork,
they weren't supposed to process it until they delivered it.
I changed my mind,
they went ahead and charged it on my account.
it took me about eighteen months to get mess off of my account.
probably the worst thing I've ever had happen with a credit card.
I wonder if they ...
Hi Norma.
Have you taken anything back lately, that you've bought?
the only thing we've taken back recently are plants.
Shrubbery, that were guaranteed
we had no problem with it.
Very good.
We back.
do you think that, consumer are generally getting better, or worse in quality?
I believe they're better.
I do too.
I believe about ten years ago that we went through a terrible time,
I don't,
believe that they're better now,
wh ,
I think so.
I don't think they're shoddy, not as shoddy.
Electrical appliances I think are pretty good,
however, I didn't like it very well when the transmission went out on my car with sixty three thousand miles on it.
Right .
I don't like it very well if, when my electric blanket that was only one year old went out one side.
did you return it?
I had moved away.
I had taken the first one back.
I didn't think that it heated well enough.
It never did get anything but just moderately warm,
took it back
the people told me that's the way it's supposed to be
I fell for it
when I got this one bit warmer
after one year it started heating only on one side.
you or your husband can be warm but not both .
Also, I took an iron back after having it only one year.
I figure anybody that is dumb enough to iron, needs to have an iron that will last a long time,
one year of ironing only once a week is not long enough for it to last.
Did they replace it?
without even any question,
I think it was the store.
Wal Mart.
Wal Mart,
I was going to say, it must have been Wal Mart.
Yes .
have you been buying any clothes lately? Any new clothes?
I haven't bought any new clo ,
the last thing I bought was a dress last Summer.
the buttons turned on it the winter.
The buttons tarnished slightly
I have not gone back about it.
That was poor quality, I think.
I think it is too,
it was an expensive dress.
I wondered if it weren't expensive,
it was.
they should have put buttons on it that would last forever.
That's right,
that's what I think too.
one the loop
half of it raveled out.
that was, I believe a Leslie Faye dress
it was, I think, over a hundred dollars.
You spent that much on your dresses?
I don't usually,
I did that one.
You're really divulging very personal information.
I think it should have been better than that, for that money, is what I mean.
of course, I do too.
I believe that we've been talking about five minutes.
I think so.
Norma, it is just wonderful to talk to you.
Good talking to you too,
I've enjoyed it .
You are a good one to talk about consumer goods, because you keep up on it all the time.
we'll be talking to you later.
Bye, bye.
Bye, bye.
what part of Virginia,
I live down in the south western part of Blacksburg.
I've been,
have you ever heard of Virginia Tech?
Sounds vaguely familiar.
V P I.
hadn't been down in that part of the state really.
we vacation a lot.
How about you? .
Quite frequently.
I wish we did .
we retired early
take trips pretty often.
Where all you guys go?
we go to Maine every Fall
then that's kind of a family visit and a vacation all up and down the coast
I have a daughter in Texas and one in New Mexico,
we go out there
we go to Florida
we were just out recently at the outer banks of North Carolina.
All these places that I've never been .
Is that right .
Where do you go?
What type of vacation?
it really depends,
seems like I do a lot in the Midwest lately,
my, fiancee's family's from Wisconsin
we've been out there a couple of times
I, went to Purdue for a couple of years,
I've gone up to Indianapolis on occasion to visit friends
I'm a real big baseball fan
I usually try to combine it with, catching a couple of games somewhere.
What club do you follow?
a big Red Sox fan,
Red S ,
me too .
you're a Red Sox fan too?
I usually try to catch whoever's in town though, I don't specifically,
I, go to Cleveland to see them play,
the Indians or the Red Sox,
that's about it,
a lot of little trips around here,
Ever go up in Pennsylvania in the mountains
Not that much.
We've gone out to, a place in western Pennsylvania called Falling Water.
have you ever heard of it?
I've heard of it.
I've never been there.
really neat.
It's this house built a waterfall
it's, really cool .
of course, we keep picking crummy weather to go out there,
the first time we went out there was, the day after hurricane Hugo had come through .
didn't have any power
it was really cold rainy
we went up about a year later
it was better but not a whole,
lot better .
where else did we go,
we've gone to Richland, last year
did you?
and, had a good time,
Did you go,
down there.
to Williamsburg,
have you been down there?
my girlfriend has with her sisters
I haven't been,
down there.
I hear that's nice.
We're going to get down, probably down Norfork sometime this Summer,
just to catch a football game actually .
We were down,
when we came back from the outer banks we came up due Norfork and spent the night there with a friend in Portsmith and then went to Williamsburg and spent a night.
spend a day and a lot of money .
Yeah .
I've heard,
I'm not real interested in Williamsburg because price attached,
to it.
We just,
it's pretty neat down to just go and walk around, if you like to walk,
it's a good town to just,
walk in.
You can go,
do that.
to the buildings and not go in if you're not,
I can wander around without,
you can wander,
it's a good town to wander in.
I just have it pay somebody to get into the buildings?
That's right.
I didn't know that.
I think, they do the whole with, paying,
they really did throw away a lot of money getting one thing or another,
they had a good time
We really didn't do that really this time, we just, visited around.
We've done it a couple of times
that's enough for, probably another twenty years.
I was,
we use it live in California
around San Francisco,
there was one year when starting to do stuff down in Los Angeles,
my father was working down in Los Angeles for like, six months or so,
to a full year
fly down there on Mondays and fly back on Fridays,
any time we had a school vacation or something like that we went down to Los Angeles,
to Disneyland about five times,
Oh .
in one year
I really have no great urge to go back now.
That's great as a kid though, isn't it,
it was great, because, the times that were really fun were when, we had vacation
the kids in Los Angeles didn't
we basically had one of the parks.
there was amusement park down there, Busch Gradens,
there was nobody there when we were there, a log floating ride like five straight times,
we just done with them and they go, do you want to go again,
Have you ever,
you've never been down to Epcot at Florida and Disney
I'd like to,
that's good,
really enjoy that,
we've been two or three times and probably go back again this winter.
I've never been,
the fartherest south I've been on the East Coast is Charlotte.
I, keep wanting to get further,
I thought I would go to Florida a couple Summers,
never did it.
Charleston is a really nice place to visit.
sister lives in Charlotte
they've gone to,
Charleston a couple of times and had a real good,
it's a real pretty place.
one of these days we'll get down there, although .
I don't know when we're going to have vacation to do it .
getting married in about,
are you.
a year
our honeymoon, we're going up to this, place in Wisconsin called Door County,
it's up by Green Bay.
It's a place my girlfriend's also wanted,
to go,
Is it on, one of the lakes?
I don't if you've ever seen a map of Wisconsin
there's kind of like thing sticking out, in the Lake Michigan,
that's Door County .
that would,
be really nice.
they call it the Cape Cod of the,
Oh .
the Midwest
we're thinking that'll be a lot of fun,
had this, book of pictures from it that were really nice, kind of like a travel guide
sounds good.
that should be a lot of fun.
I don't know what our next trip will be, I guess our next,
I know what my next trip, I'm going to be a grandmother in July .
my next trip is going to be to Texas .
that'll be fun .
of the Summer.
you won't even,
notice it though .
they'll be air conditioning anyway
how you got into
data base?
my daughter's a temp at Texas Instruments,
and working on this project.
most of the people I've talk to Texas,
heard you were from Virginia I was like, okay, there's somebody different,
you said, I got somebody down in Texas,
I go, okay, that the connection,
That's it,
yeah .
right there .
I talked to one in California,
I never asked him the other day how he was connected,
I don't think he was T I employee.
most people talk to Texas,
there's been a couple of other the people, most of whom are like me that work speech labs that are going to use data base,
I see.
it was fun
ended up talking to somebody else from the same lab I'm in.
Is that right.
we spent last week end in Charlotte with real good friends that had just,
moved to back East from Oklahoma,
she's, working on this project too,
she's talking on the project too
we got back Monday
I got a call yesterday
it was her, on T I Network .
that's neat.
had something like that happen, getting the one guy,
from the lab.
you're sure have a nice town,
my, sister lives on Lake,
Norman, just,
that's nice out there.
we keep wanting to get down there and visit them over the Summer
never really works out.
it's real pretty.
Yeah .
Well .
(( Traffic )) , not much else we do for vacation really,
just so we been able to take really.
Are you a golfer?
Me either.
Are you guys,
not too much into sports.
Except our outside (( )) , though.
Just walking that's all .
I don't think there are any, (( traveling that was in my early teens down )) in that area
I'm know real sure there are,
No professionals .
When, F
I was thinking I might be minor league
there's one in Salem, Salem Rebels.
Salem Rebels,
I maybe seeing them, in a town just west of here, Frederick minor league team that plays in the same league with Salem
I think we may be seeing them this,
weekend .
is that right up there in Frederick?
I think they're out of town.
that's a nice little town actually, Frederick,
I've never been up there.
I've never visited Baltimore.
I'd like to go just sight see a little bit sometime.
some nice things in Baltimore,
the Inner Harbor and the,
the Aquarium and all that are very nice.
they've just done a,
the Aquarium is one of those things that, because everybody,
we're going to talk about our lawn and chores,
do you have either one?
I don't do anything with the lawn really,
I do gardening,
(( Do you )) .
both flowers and vegetable gardening.
we have enough property that we can have a little bit of a garden
that's fun,
Wally's had one even when we haven't had big yard because, we enjoy that.
We love fresh vegetables in the summer,
it's just one of the things I enjoy doing.
So do I.
I would,
I had rather be outside inside any day.
So would I .
Do you work during the week, outside the home?
I do.
I manage to fit in my gardening chores afterward,
I work for a school system
I'm able to do that, because I get home a little earlier,
I can still do sorts of things
you sneak out in the morning after daylight savings time starts and with your cup of coffee and see if it has grown overnight.
absolutely .
I unfortunately am not gardening this year.
I love gardening,
in fact, I was prevented about thirty years ago with a life membership, from the Richmond, Virginia counsel of garden clubs.
it wasn't because I was so good,
I organized a very large garden club,
I still have,
that's wonderful.
always something that seems so odd to me
you really feel you can accomplish something
to help other people too, that's neat.
it has really nothing to do with, actual gardening or flower arranging or anything like that,
it was just that I happened to organize this group,
that was about seventy people.
That's wonderful.
those numbers great
I think it sounds good.
I've never belonged to a garden club because I've always been more interested in just doing what I can do on my own,
I've never had,
the time really to get involved in the organized sort of format,
I know people who do it enjoy it very much.
I think that most women's garden clubs that I've been aware of in the past, are only flowers,
what I would like,
we've spent the last twenty years in Oklahoma.
Just moved North Carolina,
we were of course, from this area, from Virginia,
in North,
in Oklahoma, it's the men's garden clubs that I would have wanted to join.
My word.
you would have because they do all kinds of, gardening and not just flowers like women do.
For heaven's sake.
huh .
there aren't men's gardening clubs in this area that I know of,
usually they're the tea type things, where they have a little luncheon
they do their thing.
flowers are primarily the emphasis,
I think so too.
whereas I enjoy vegetable gardening almost more, I do flowers sort of look pretty
really like to do the vegetables.
I have spent the last years being a florist.
Being what?
Being a florist.
what a wonderful thing.
It was nice,
it was exhilarating, for many years.
many of those (( tanned )) until the last couple when, we had such an economic slowdown.
tell me what's in your garden this year, since I don't have one.
the flowers I'm just,
in fact, I was going to go out today to buy some plants so I could put them in,
always have geraniums
I have a shady area that I need to, be concerned about not getting something that has to have sun,
I've discovered that, impatiens that tried and true turns out to be about the best thing to use there along with coleus.
Because they, look pretty in my front garden,
I like the vinca which is something I hadn't,
they look sort of like impatiens,
they're not quite
they're better for the sun areas.
of course, mine are old (( theory )) ordinary flowers, marigolds that sort of thing.
In my,
Do you have trouble with red spider on marigolds?
I don't.
Maybe it's,
I don't know,
maybe this climate is a little better.
in the vegetable garden we grow, usually, what
our favorite is something called (( white half runner green beans )) ,
now that's,
Do you,
isn't that funny,
so is my favorite.
you know why, because I grew up in North Carolina,
that was my mother's, favorite bean
grows, five different varieties,
that's the kind that produces the best.
I think it has the best flavor.
they're wonderful,
I pick them when they're very young and have very little string and then just steam them a little bit,
my mother picks them when they're fat
she cooks them for an hour with some (( fat backs )) , ,
I like them in between.
they're good both ways.
I like them in between.
The flavor is better I think in between.
in between the
(( size wise ))
My mother,
my mother doesn't think they have any flavor the way I cook them .
I know I love them,
that's the yankee way.
I think,
of course.
that's another vegetable.
I love them that way the thrill of,
it is.
They're two different vegetables that way,
In fact, my mother, who is eighty six years old, canned over a hundred quarts of half runners last year.
my gosh.
My mother will be ninety this year
she lives in western North Carolina
she would do that we didn't tell her that she'd better not .
she doesn't have that big a garden,
she has a bigger one than I do.
Real ,
I have four children,
she tends to it herself?
isn't that wonderful.
it is,
it's great.
really her joy
I suppose that's why I enjoy gardening,
I think so too.
because, growing up with it.
We also grow, yellow and green squash,
much to my children's chagrin,
we grow a lot of tomatoes,
there's just no replacement for fresh grown tomatoes.
we enjoy that,
we grow
have been trying to grow watermelon and cantaloupe and get teased by my family
I actually was successful for the last two years,
I'm going to do it again.
Bet you showed them.
That's right.
we grow broccoli.
I have been very, happy about the new way of controlling worm that gets in broccoli, by using the Bacillus Thuringiansis which is the, little,
in fact, that's what they use for gypsy moth,
I don't know if you have had that problem there or not.
a problem moving south the New England area.
they devastate the trees
the government, sprays, two, three times in the spring when the, caterpillars coming along because what they do, bacillus, the worms ingest it
it expands digestive tract
they die.
that's the same technique that is, for any of the other, little varmints that get in vegetables
that's really very nice because it's a non toxic way handling the problem.
really talk gardening a long time.
I'm enjoying hearing you so much .
it's nice hearing you talk
wish you, good luck,
have you just recently moved to Charlotte?
a ,
that's not very long.
recently seven months
the weather is wonderful,
I love it.
that's great,
that's great.
It is just terrific,
rains a little too often.
I hope you have opportunity to garden again.
I think so,
I have a little spinach .
good .
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
we've changed in the last ten to twenty years?
I'm at a little bit of a loss,
I don't know,
ten years ago,
about, twenty eight now
when I was eighteen,
things haven't changed a whole lot.
People are being a little less bigoted in some ways,
I don't know
seems to me.
I guess I'm like my parents.
The younger generation gets away with hell,
it seems to me that civic freedoms are more restricted
that may just be because I've changed.
I used to live up north.
Down here, Dallas, seems to me, the police are militant
Where'd you live up,
where'd you live at,
I lived in Akron, Ohio.
did you?
I'm from (( )) , Illinois,
you been in Dallas?
about eight years.
In fact in the eight years I've been here it seems to me it restrictive place to live.
I think,
as you're talking like police and stuff like that it's definitely a tough job to do.
I think it's,
crime has got a lot worse in the last
I agree.
last ten, fifteen years,
maybe that has a lot to do with it.
definitely think that has gotten a lot worse,
think there's,
to me there seems to be a little bit of a decline in the family values.
that's true.
That's true,
I'd say my own personal lifestyle has improved
that's more a matter of,
I'm no longer a teenager in high school.
I think there's more pressure on both parents to work, and things like that than there used to be
Somebody's at the door.
Hang on just a second.
. Okay.
I don't know,
thing a lot more, double income families and a lot more baby sitters raising the kids and things like that, I guess.
that's true,
it's getting more and more expensive to live.
that's for sure.
make it,
without it hardly,
that's right.
I guess, when I was growing up, still the ideal to home and buy house,
(( )) these days you see a lot of people living in apartments
you just don't buy a house,
just because they can't get into one,
that's right.
the ways our tax laws and stuff are structured, you can't ever catch a break until you can get into a house
in a lot of ways,
a good point
I'm trying to think of anything else that's changed over the last ten or twenty years.
for me it's kind of hard,
I don't know.
I think,
I don't know, I think the middle class is shrinking and the, lower class is expanding
I agree.
sooner or later be a turn around.
I hope so, at some point
I don't know at what point,
I think it's going to be at the expense of the middle class,
usually is
I think.
It's hard for me to say.
I hope it happens, because I'd be one of those that gets caught.
on the other hand, there's a lot of injustice that needs to changed.
that's right.
Do you work at T I?
Do you?
What, department do you work in?
I'm in semiconductor.
Are you?
I'm in semiconductor division too.
How long you been with them, since you moved down here?
About eight years,
I'm over at the Center One building.
so am I.
Are you really.
What floor?
I'm on the seventh floor.
How about that.
it's a small world.
let's see,
second floor, you work with, linear.
do you know Alec Morton?
I've probably seen him around.
you do,
he comes up and pushes us around
I'm pretty familiar with,
Are you D A D or something up there?
Are you D A D or something?
Yeah .
you must know him.
His reputation precedes him.
seventh floor.
T A D,
comes up there and gives us all kinds of grief.
say it's what makes him happy is to give us D A D ers grief,
I can believe it
let's see, if you've been in Dallas eight years, I guess that's about how long,
I've been in here about eight years, too, I guess.
been with T I like twelve,
I started out in Lubbock.
(( )) .
Lubbock is,
I don't know,
I guess if this is the only place you've lived, Lubbock is a lot different than Dallas.
flat, dry
and dirty,
the people all seem to be a lot more laid back, too,
here in Dallas everything is just real rush, rush.
I lived in the country for several years,
living in the city is a whole different
social structure
I got some friends that,
seems like he went to school at DeVry.
Is there a DeVry in Akron?
I don't even know
I haven't been up there in years.
I see,
he went to school somewhere in Ohio,
he's from that area,
he works over in the Central building I think
I haven't talked to him in a while,
misses it.
He used to go back twice or three times a year, because he missed it.
Sounds like you haven't been back there in a while.
I haven't been back in years.
You still have relatives back there
I do,
I just haven't had a chance to get back .
Catch them next year probably.
let's see,
long are we supposed to talk here?
I don't know,
I think we ran out of social,
social changes to talk about,
my kids are probably needing me to go
all right,
it's nice talking to you.
Talk to you later.
All righty,
Kathleen, do you believe that there is a problem with our public school system?
I certainly do.
I think ...
what do you think that problem is?
I think we have a lousy school system.
I think a lot of it has to do with the fact that we don't train our teachers very well.
we put the schools in the hands of professional educators instead of the teachers and the parents.
too much, responsibility on the teachers,
for things that are really not education.
They're social services.
That seems like you've thought this through quite a bit before.
just finished editing a book on the topic.
I have some rather strong opinions.
That's interesting.
Do you, yourself ...
I'm sure they're colored by what I've edited.
Do youself have children who are or have been through the public school system?
I do.
I was not very happy with the results.
I see.
if you were to improve it, what would you do to improve it?
I think I would start getting rid of about two thirds of the administrators.
And all the auxiliary personnel. The school bureaucracy that exists mainly to perpetuate itself.
I would the money that we've paying them to, provide some special help in training and particularly, mentor teachers
to work with the beginning teachers and the teachers who may have been at it a long time but have been making the same mistakes for a long time .
And then let them try some innovative things and see what
works. And then, have some sort of mechanism for passing that knowledge along to other teachers who could benefit from the same sorts of things.
And then from the parents side, have the parents support the school. Get involved.
Pay attention to what's happening. Talk to the teachers. talk to their kids about school. And support the institution
a ,
instead of becoming adversaries to the teachers so that teacher's in the middle.
That's, some pretty good ideas.
Why don't you do something with those ?
I've done about all I can do which is get the manuscript in good shape so that it can be published and read by a lot of people.
you should, run for a school board position.
That I'm not so sure about.
I've got a lot of things to keep me busy.
That ...
Have you done anything like that?
Anything political?
my mother was on the school board.
As we were coming up.
that, basically, is the extent to which family has been directly,
they've always been involved.
My parents through P T A organization.
my mother was on the school board for eight years.
the extent of which I guess that's more some people, less than others .
That's more than a lot .
I would, tend to agree with you that there is a problem .
The methods of correcting it I haven't thought through quite to the detail which you have.
I believe that there's definitely a basic perception and image problem with the fact of even being a teacher.
if there was a way through the public mind, set that image to be a little higher esteem, more prestige to being a teacher.
with that, of course, you have to pay them accordingly.
If we paid them more, it would attract more higher educated people move into that field to continue in that field.
if you paid them more, you'd also be able to demand a higher quality product out of them.
I think that's absolutely right.
the thing that worries me about that is that if you just raise salaries across the board, you're going to be,
rewarding people who've been doing a lousy job.
instead of getting the, improvement that we want.
we'd have to have some way to, reward and recognize the teachers who are doing a good job and give them a,
a pat on the back and respect and some honor and
more money.
it's a business or an occupation that the results are not as tangible
hard to tell.
as other ones
difficult to say that this teacher is doing a better job than this other one, other than I guess a person scores in the beginning before the class and then after the class.
if there's some gauge that they could make.
also, thought about the idea of making teaching and the ,
before you can get a certificate, you have certain residency period. much like a doctor.
Maybe not the four years definitely.
some certain type position where you're overseen to begin with.
that's a very good suggestion.
just something to, i ,
rather than throw someone that environment, it
I don't think
I thought that maybe something.
student, I don't think student teaching is enough.
I think
that, at least what I used to observe in student teaching, was that some college kid who might not be all that bright to begin with, was thrown into a class room with a teacher who was harried and overworked and, had too many kids to handle and too many things to do and too many interruptions
to pay much attention to the student teacher.
the student teacher didn't stay but about six weeks.
there really was no time to try,
much of anything and get significant feedback that would help student teacher improve very much.
There are lots of things that could be done in that line, including things like video taping. Because it wouldn't be hard with all the electronic equipment that's around these days to video tape, either a master teacher teaching a class so that then,
students could watch that and, criticize the methods used analyze it. Figure out what worked and what didn't work.
also to video tape the student teachers so they could correct their own performance.
That's good as a teaching aid.
more you see these commercials that have Jimmy walking into class late and it happens that the teacher is an instructor who is in New York while Jimmy's in Rome.
the whole electronic classroom idea.
I don't know if I I'm in favor
I don't think that's going to work.
in favor of,
I think, especially in the younger years you need to have more of person contact rather than just the fact that your machine being fed information learn how to learn.
another thing I think would be helpful would be to have some sort say a national curriculum. Because one of the problems with getting good textbooks is that we have such a fragmented system for, curriculums that the textbook makers produce a textbook that will sell in Texas and California.
everybody else is stuck with that, regardless of what they want to teach.
Is that
it ...
because that's where the two biggest markets are
that's the two states that adopt on a state wide basis.
I see.
I used to work for a textbook publisher
it was absolutely clear that if you could get your book adopted by Texas, then you had a built in market because there were only about three or four textbooks in each subject
all you had to do is just get your share of those adopted
in the individual school districts.
a third of the Texas market with its millions of kids is a heck of a lot of textbooks.
the states that don't adopt on a state wide basis or don't have as many kids, just have to follow along and take what Texas gets.
(( )) California is the biggest for elementary schools
Texas, adopts state wide all the way through the twelfth grade.
I see.
definitely is a national problem that they need to address.
Sure is.
Definitely is.
I hope maybe we're going to get somewhere with a little more attention being paid to it with, Reagan's, new education secretary new programs anyway.
Excuse me.
I've enjoyed speaking with you.
I have got to go.
I've got another line calling.
All righty.
Good bye .
Bye .
that's okay
. tell me about your home.
looks like a little shot gun house, almost.
It's got three bedrooms going along one side and the living room and kitchen on the other.
It's, an older home,
it's not new,
I like it though,
it's big.
what kind of square footage?
I wouldn't know,
I measured it one time,
because we had saw some termites
we thought about getting it sprayed.
I think it was like,
I can't remember,
I'm sorry
That's okay,
that's okay.
It's big enough for us, though.
We kind of need maybe one more room.
We've got two children.
where do you live at,
part of town. Denison.
we ,
that's north.
down here in Denison,
in Plano,
it's north to me .
up here then .
I say down,
I'm really from Kentucky.
I was going to say you didn't have the typical,
you have a southern accent,
you don't have a Texas accent.
I'm originally from, Ohio, Cincinnati,
I'm with,
That area,
that dialect.
. Also I lived in Georgia for about four years,
there's a difference too, between east and west, in the south.
the way in which people speak.
my home about twenty five hundred square foot
I have, four bedrooms at the present.
We're busting out walls and things like that.
That's what I want to do.
How many kids do you have?
We have two,
we have two.
Do you have enough bedroom space, then?
we'll have enough bedroom space,
we're rearranging our house because the bedrooms are kind of small.
we're going to enlarge our master bedroom and take out a couple of walls and enlarge it. And then shuffle the rooms around a little bit.
That's kind of like what we'd like to do.
We just had a baby a couple months ago
we've got a den,
it's more or less a spare room.
We rarely go in there, except for to play chess.
We want to make that a bedroom for my stepdaughter and my daughter
we need the one extra room.
you said,
the living room and kitchen are huge,
the bedrooms are too small.
Where you've got to leave the furniture just one certain way, you can't rearrange it at all.
there's they,
I know what you're saying there,
ours is the same
they tend to put windows in the strangest places.
we have windows in our bathrooms which really makes it difficult for,
we've got two great big windows in our back bathroom.
kind of limited in what you can do there and everything,
No privacy.
we don't have a lot of that,
we've got at least two windows on every wall in the house.
I'd hate to clean these windows,
I really would.
I figured I'm going to have to hire somebody to remove our windows and put new ones in that are easier to clean.
Ours are the double pane
you can't really clean them on the inside,
Ours are those too,
You must live in an older home too then.
I do,
the house is about, I'd say almost thirty years old.
it's not a new home,
seen some wear and tear.
Ours has too.
When we moved in the man that sold it to us had said that he remodeled it,
he did it hisself,
most of that, by now, is falling apart.
it's not just horrible,
this tiles come loose off the wall,
the whole bathroom is covered from ceiling to foot in tile
I don't like that at all.
that is awful.
With that, the great big that you put on the floor,
he did it in that?
huge one.
instead of wallpaper.
I wouldn't mind it if it was short tiles,
for that you put,
The normal tiles,
that you put around a bathtub,
that would be prettier.
this looks like floor covering on the wall.
It just doesn't look good.
also they're very heavy
they tend to come off a whole lot easier.
there's one big one that has come off
short of putting nails through it, we can't get it back on,
he rewired the house
it's shorting out here and there,
that's one of the things we've been fortunate with, is our, wiring is okay.
enough power,
our breakers powerful enough to really help with the load in the house.
we need to redo some, rewiring ourselves
our plumbing is awful.
a shut off valve that's outside that doesn't work,
there's no other real shut off valves inside the house,
if something breaks, we have to shut it off from the main, in the street,
can be really bizarre.
we never know where it's going to flood.
We've got power surges on the west side of our house.
We've got our stereo hooked up.
the power makes it run.
It's never ran,
it's always ran just fine, the clock and stuff.
it runs about ten minutes fast, except clock ran normal.
the power went off again,
lightning or something knocked it out
we hooked it back up
now it's running ten or fifteen minutes fast again.
on the east side of the house it runs fine.
boy, you do have a strange wiring problem there.
He put new wiring in,
it's all new wiring up in the attic,
or I guess crawl space,
he didn't know what he was doing,
he really should have hired people.
that's something,
my husband's in construction
he won't even touch electrical stuff.
He, i ,
he'll do a little (( )) things
he won't do any major rewiring.
He says he'd rather pay the electrician to handle it.
he'll end up killing himself.
End up killing theirselves.
That's right.
My husband, he'll change out a light switch,
that's about as far as he'll go.
that's the way mine is,
he said he went up in the attic and looked around
he was like, my God,
he says, looks like a bunch of spaghetti up there.
we had squirrels in our attic when we first moved in because the roof was so sorry,
. was a what,
The roof was really sorry.
when we moved in,
we had no idea how bad it was.
It was a wood shingle roof,
the first year we were living there, we had to replace the roof.
he put,
I heard it's a law that you're only allowed to have three layers of shingles.
Is it three or five,
husband probably knows.
He probably knows,
I don't know what it is off hand.
he's got seven layers of shingles up there,
he told us it was a completely new roof.
Like I said, he didn't know what he was doing.
he must not of.
We didn't put it over, 'cause we put composition roof on.
we all the old wood shingles off, put decking up, put the paper down, and just started from scratch.
Unfortunately when we were doing that it decided it wanted to snow and hail and rain.
we had almost, I'd say about half of the roof off,
it did this.
a house full of snow.
a house full of snow, and rain,
it came down,
it did this in the middle of the night.
We have plastic, just tied down on everything, as best we could,
real thick (( edge )) stuff,
the wind came in from the north
it just blew everything off in the middle of the night
we were asleep
I woke up
I got up
it was about four o'clock in the morning
I heard all drips, drip, drip, drip, drip, drip, drip.
I had water coming in every light fixture.
I had water coming in everything that was in the ceiling, everywhere.
it filled up my light fixtures, because they're the old kind.
I would go in,
I'd turn on a light in the room,
the light would come on
the whole thing would be full of water.
the light would still come on.
It didn't blow up or anything .
of mine when I lived in Louisiana, her,
we all lived on base,
my husband was in the Army.
She woke up about three or four o'clock in the morning, water dripping from hers.
The neighbor's washing machine had over done something,
I don't know
it was leaking, just pouring water in
it all went through to her roof
it was coming out of the lights, fixtures.
The fire alarm went off for some reason.
It shorted it out, or something.
that will happen.
she woke up with about six feet of water in her house.
my lord.
not six feet
it's quite a bit, quite a bit,
you know that,
you might as well
Did you have carpets and stuff?
several of our rooms got ruined,
we have,
we are on pier and beam,
we don't have concrete slab underneath our house,
got into the carpeting, got into the floor.
The carpeting was already awful anyway,
it got into the floor and rotted the floor and made it stink
s ,
Your house sounds like mine because mine's pier and beam too.
they came in
they had it,
one room they completely cut up the floor in and removed it.
We had to call the insurance company.
the insurance company was paying for the new roof
they also ended up having to pay for the damage when the roof was being repaired.
which really wasn't our fault.
we'd done everything we could to keep out the weather.
That's right.
That's right.
and stuff
you got to redo it the way you wanted it in the end.
Are you finished with it now?
the roof?
been done for quite some time.
We're really glad with all the rain we've had in the last couple of years that we have a really good roof.
how long have you lived there?
it's three,
it's just been three years.
We've been in the house just the three years.
We've been doing a lot of remodeling.
it had a detached garage
my husband's built a walkway across
we're going to brick up the garage to match the house and things like that
You all did it yourselves?
What, the walk?
The home improvements.
he see he does this for a living,
this is what,
All right.
quite a few
they're varied.
They don't, encompass, many handcrafts like knitting and that kind of thing.
I do, quite a bit of wreath making
my dogs are my hobbies.
I do a lot of gardening.
I go to estate sales, which takes up a lot of time.
what do you mostly do ?
mostly right now a lot of sports and stuff like that is my hobbies and do a lot of things with my family as much as possible.
about to take the kids to go roller skating and a birthday party and stuff,
boy .
That should be fun.
Fun for them.
How old are they?
I've got a little girl who's six and a little girl that's three.
I think that's better than having that party at home .
this is a friend's party
the party,
they, just rent skates and stuff for the kids.
they're looking forward to it.
the, the skating rink does the rest practically,
I guess.
huh .
Boy, what a help that is.
Yeah .
What kind of,
how long have you lived in North Carolina?
not that long.
just since October.
We moved here from Enid, Oklahoma.
originally from Virginia, this part of the country.
we did spend twenty years in Norman and Enid
and loved it.
we needed to get back,
to our older parents.
I am loving it .
The weather is divine.
W ,
did you like Oklahoma,
while you were there?
Very much.
what did you all do?
my husband was with, University of Oklahoma and,
Phillips University in Enid.
he went with, a family corporation that has oil and ranching and varied enterprises.
he just quit a perfectly good job and East .
he working there then
He's doing, quite a bit of consulting work and,
has been offered a permanent position
he's contemplating .
liking this free time .
It's just wonderful after all,
these years of working.
you get, hooked up with the T I switchboard thing?
a gal who works, with T I on this project .
I think she's a temporary worker .
mother is my best friend ,
I see.
in Virginia .
I see.
we have spread the word a little bit in this part of the country.
huh .
W ,
my wife has talked more than I have,
she's talked to four, five different people.
It seems like she hasn't talked to anybody from Dallas.
In fact, she's talked to a couple of people from North Carolina, I think.
what is her name?
Her name's Tina .
I haven't talked to her.
I haven't,
I haven't talked to a Tina yet .
W ,
call was probably for her.
They wouldn't accept my, T I N number,
we put hers in.
like I said, we're the kids ready to go to the birthday party,
some (( of )) ,
only talked to one or two
all been in Dallas.
she hasn't talked to anybody,
in Dallas, yet.
that's interesting.
you haven't told me, what sports that you are active in.
the sport I like best probably is basketball.
I guess I'm probably better at softball.
during the summer months it's, occupies quite a bit of my,
I play in a couple of leagues occasionally in a tournament or something on a weekend.
my family usually goes with me.
We try to do everything we can together.
I think that's, easy entertainment for a,
family, too.
a good friend of mine that plays on one of my teams, we,
that's usually the team I play on with the tournaments and stuff,
they have a couple of kids that are almost my kids age.
they play together,
Under the stands.
pretty well
Under the,
. *
pretty much.
Tina enjoys, the other lady,
huh. *
real well.
that's kind of nice.
It's like getting together with,
it's getting,
So to speak.
a little hot, isn't it?
it's been raining a lot here so far.
we haven't really had any kind of real heat.
I think it's going to be warm enough this afternoon, we were noticing a while ago it's already eighty the house.
it looks like an air conditioner,
It sure does.
maybe this evening anyway.
I'm sure you're familiar with that living,
much so.
through Enid, quite a bit.
We go to Tulsa from time to time.
parents live in southern Illinois.
we drive,
up there.
of times we take seventy five
it that goes through Enid,
I know,
it doesn't.
I've either seen the signs or,
Enid is,
it's in the northwest.
It's, directly across the from Tulsa.
I know I've seen,
Sure you have.
the sign somewhere.
Enid is,
not, an unknown little city.
an awful lot of people know where it is, or have been there.
was, a very, self sufficient, wealthy , town,
for a long time, anyway . ,
until, everything happened,
the bottom fell out.
it's beginning to do well.
there's a lot of, old time wealth there that,
has helped to stabilize things.
how l ,
you said you've just lived in North Carolina just
Si ,
six months then is,
Something like that.
you really like,
it there,
I've heard so many people talk about that area.
I've never been there
they sure,
say it's pretty.
The weather is wonderful.
this winter we,
it was just,
we had so many wonderful days.
if it got to be forty degrees, I decided it was too cold walk the dogs .
Isn't it,
your standards change ?
It really does.
My wife and I spent a couple years, doing church work up in the state of Washington right,
on the coast.
it rains,
a lot there.
you get used to it.
it's like a fine mist all the time
it doesn't really,
it gets to where it doesn't bother,
Carolina, this part, is very much like that, too. Very, *
foggy and,
The moss grows,
on the trees in the woods up (( )) ,
eight, ten,
That's the way it there, too.
I think, however, that's like February.
I know it did it all February.
some people said to me, that's our wintertime."
I know you,
need to go.
I've enjoyed talking to you.
I have enjoyed talking to you, too.
It was nice,
Thanks so much.
to talk to you.
Have a,
I hope you enjoy,
thank you.
North Carolina.
I hope you enjoy,
(( )) , *
and get through that birthday party.
Yeah . *
I hope,
I do,
I live through it.
too .
That's what I hope.
Thanks a lot.
Bye bye.
Good bye.
All right,
how long have they been recycling there in Virginia? .
quite a while.
I've lived here for six years
can you hold on just a second? .
huh .
I'm sorry
I must have got the other line cut off.
they've been doing that it for a while now
I live in an apartment
my ap , (( facilities )) ,
there it is,
hold on .
huh .
. Okay,
sorry about that .
you're okay,
okay .
they have facilities here in my apartment complex for recycling paper only.
I've been recycling for maybe about two years now and, at another public facility
where they have, recycling of glass, aluminum and paper.
plastic also?
that's what don't understand exactly why they don't have that option.
have out here
up until just this last year in on you are town there wasn't any really good way,
they had some bends, *
around that we could find and put them in
not all that many,
it wasn't very well advertised
recently, the refuse department is working on getting a system going where we will actually have, a bend that we put things in for recycling these other things
should be good,
I think it's a marvelous idea the papers that I dump out
there just,
it's such a
I waste,
I just hate to think about it.
an additional thing is,
where I work
they also have recycling there of, all white paper and of, cans also
a lot of people, right at the vending machines,
they have receptacles that,
you can just pop your cans in
near the,
Xerox machines they have places, for your,
I keep a little box at my desk,
it right in there,
they have someone that comes around and pick it up, every afternoon
that's neat.
which, is an excellent idea,
at work because I know the amount paper they go through there
that's right.
I guess one of the things, I think, that needs to happen is we need to be better informed about,
about it,
there's needs to be more public,
I would agree with that.
service programs or something that would let us know had happens to it
and helps us to become enthused about it because of what is happening
I've seen a few things but not very much,
think that's a shame
they need to, do a little more,
I'd like to know, for instance, say, plastic, all plastic, what kind of plastic,
can you put all together or,
is there some reason not to,
maybe they just sort it after they get it and throw out what they can't use,
I don't know
be glad to organize it,
if they'd tell me what it is I'm doing
because be really helpful. *
I agree with you there,
another thing that I like here which is,
I do with,
I have to actually go to two different recycling areas because one of them is that,
their aluminum cans is for, Children's Hospital, for a burn fund
all the monies are donated,
for the recycling to Children's Hospital, which I think is an excellent idea,
that's great.
there, because the other,
that gives,
you a little bit of incentive there.
before even at work,
before they started the recycling plan, which at work they've only been doing since January first of this year, I had had everyone in my department recycling
I would have them drop,
Saving them for you,
drop their cans off in my office
I would haul them, here to this place for the Children's Hospital Fund
which got people really going into it,
I think that's,
helping us be more about it,
helping us using the money for something special that would be like paying off the national debt .
huh .
. *
there you go.
Making sure (( )) . *
That's for sure.
think that's
I think needs to be a little bit more in the area
and you understand,
more of what it is you're doing, why you're doing it, how it's done and,
happens to it because I think would help a lot.
I'm sure, in the near future I would think they would be coming out with more,
I've seen a definite trend, towards more recycling,
everywhere, even at McDonald's,
with use of no,
foam containers anymore.
to see some of these things, I think.
it is getting more, advertisement.
People are becoming more conscience all the time that it's necessary to do,
and that we need to somehow get away from the fact that we have to have everything individually wrapped,
all these things that,
I think that's true.
I think,
I'm that's about my, ,
Yeah .
(( some )) on recycling
enjoyed talking to you.
I did too.
all right,
Bye bye .
I have,
used to have the opinion that there really was not any more crime in America, in the cities, than there was in previous centuries, before,
simply because.
The reason there seems to be so much was the fact that the police now had advanced, reporting methods, with computers and other devices.
Compile more statistics.
That's right,
those statistics in turn got them bigger budgets.
However, I have been persuaded, lately, I guess, simply by the, overwhelming data that seems to be available that there is indeed a lot more violent crime.
More especially where you are.
Are you,
in Washington D C or Washington state?
Washington D C.
I was going to say,
I do a lot of business here,
I come here quite often
that again sort of media perception there's some absolutely lovely and marvelous and peaceful areas in Washington.
Regardless of the racial makeup,
there's pockets of violence that is so violent that they,
It just really grabs your attention.
It just makes the whole place seem like that.
just to focus on that a minute, I guess,
when, previous secretary of, educa , Bennett, I think his name was,
became the drug czar, for, President Bush, he was going to focus this area and do something about it
I see that even he was met with little success, even though I guess quite a bit of money and other, planning efforts went into that.
think is causing all this,
it seems that there
even though
crime, though I think it is increasing in number, it sure does seem to be increasing in intensity,
and violence too.
have three theories about it, (( three things. ))
I have one theory,
it's (( brought to us )) by two things.
One believe that this is a function of, the violence that young people see on television and the movies.
I am not just talking about, role models and gangsters and things like that,
convinced that maybe things like football, hockey the, the, and even baseball games now where everything is settled with a fight. immediate need to show some sort of violence to settle th ,
. *
the argument.
am an advocate of hand gun control to some degree,
I think that particularly
was reading the other day about, Corpus Christi, Texas which has highest,
I think it's Corpus Christi, that had the highest rates per hand gun death in America
per capita.
not seen that,
the Saturday night special stuff
what I think about it,
that's some of the things I think about it,
I do not know,
what are your views?
I tend to agree with you with,
it seems anymore, a movie can not be considered good unless there's just sort of violence,
or something in it.
along with that,
you start making a movie and there's no call for something violent,
they just throw something in there just to say they have it .
Exac ,
that's the impression I get,
imagine that just feeds upon itself when we have this sort of violence in society,
people want to,
it conditions people to it
you have to amp ,
it has to be even, magnified attract people's attention. I guess,
you become callous.
to have them spend money on something like that.
I am sure that it does form role models men and young women
read now where we are,
fighting with knives whatever.
(( )) whatever reason, which is kind of unheard of when I was young.
I do not want to sound like an old fart,
that's what
seems that those things did not happen in that manner before television.
I, I have to think it has some influence on it.
I listened to a radio talk show today at lunch time
(( Rush Lynn Bottom )) *
I do not know if you listen to him or not,
he's on A M,
a fellow that had called in and was lamenting about the,
there was an interview done on the assistant chief of police for Los Angeles, the guy under Gates,
they were just really coming down on him because of that he believed in, some of his morals.
For instance, they asked him if he spanked his kids,
he said "You bet, I believe in discipline".
people, I, I guess they discipline with punishment.
it seems anymore that, you have, this type of a moral stance, that people come down on you.
It's like, hey, everybody has to be free to do their own thing.
I disagree,
I think that's really contributing to this high rate of crime.
guess what I wanted to say I do not know, I got diverted, was of a return that the rehabilitation programs seem to be a failure.
that is not emphasized.
I recognize over crowding problems
since we have decided to put everybody in jail that commits a crime now, that's complicated the entire process.
What I also think that,
I guess it's the reflection of the society we have so much more mobility and less attachment to,
it does not seem to be any responsibility to the community live
I do not mean attachment and responsibility,
I guess I mean any sort of,
nobody feels responsibility to do something.
It's like, boy, I wish they would stop doing that.
that's right.
do not know how that's,
I do not think it's done by,
the changes come simply by statutory nature.
I do not know what it really will take .
I do not know if I have solutions, to,
I am sort of an advocate of letting people, of having free speech
I guess to curb,
and in the movies would be contrary to my beliefs in that.
However, there does seem to be a,
right now in verbalizing,
it does seem to be a higher need for something of that sort.
how many,
the sacrifice is not that great.
How many studies have to be done to show that there is a link between,
what you see and how yo ,
what you see affects how you think and therefore what you do.
that's correct.
as soon as you start,
always struck me,
I have lived in and out of Texas, both in the service and, short business stints.
it seems to me they are a tough law and order state,
(( that's a, ))
yet that does not seem to have effected the amount of violent right in the state.
Just citing that,
unfortunately you have got a lot of the,
of it can be contributed to racial differences, just that we are so close,
to the border with Mexico,
we have got a lot of that influence.
people from Richardson and Plano
the first three days,
yesterday I talked with someone from Pennsylvania,
it's the,
I've only made,
this is only my third call.
tried to make calls two different days
I couldn't get through.
I know.
Sometimes I just
I'm, in,
it just takes a very long time
Does it?
I've been trying to, do that,
sometimes I just can't wait that long,
I know.
I just hang up.
Because it keeps going through the thing over and over again.
This is hilarious .
I knew as soon as I heard your voice,
I thought, (( Kester )) .
tell me, what books have you read lately? .
let's see,
can't even think.
I haven't read any,
you're such a reader, I know that
I don't read all that much for enjoyment.
I read a lot for school,
I just don't have much time for enjoyment reading .
last book I picked up was a book by Judy Bloom,
called, SMART WOMEN, I think.
or something like that.
kind of,
I really didn't like it at all.
written back in the early eighties.
it was all divorced woman syndrome
of the,
it was almost like pre AIDS scare kind of thing.
It was really an interesting,
right away looked at when it was copyrighted.
Because I could tell by the theme almost when it was written.
it was all about women searching for themselves. *
And, a lot of hanky panky,
going on.
That kind of was, kind of a pop psychology time for a lot of books like that were coming out, I think.
That's right.
that makes real sense, that that's, when it was written.
I really aware that she had written anything for, adults.
I was always,
just more aware of her jer ,
for her young people, her books. *
she's more famous for that,
she has been writing for adults also,
I'll be darned.
I thought I'll just try this,
and see what it was like.
It was very,
the style was very conversational.
You would have lots of conversations between people
rather than any description.
You know how that is,
I wonder if she's written anything really recently, if she's got anything
she has,
remember seeing a new book by her
that was out,
I think adult book.
I'll be darned.
that's the last thing read,
I'm trying to think the last actual book I read that wasn't,
let's see, I think I read,
when I was
I went to my mother's,
I read a book that I read when I was probably in high school.
I read, JANE EYRE.
wait a minute,
wait a minute,
wait a minute.
JANE EYRE?
it wasn't JANE EYRE.
WUTHERING HEIGHTS?
it was, PRIDE AND PREJUDICE,
by Jane Austen.
by Jane Austen,
That's what it was,
didn't know what to expect, except I had heard Jane Austen was such a wonderful novelist,
she really was good.
I very much impressed with the way her plot was put together so,
I just,
was pretty much ashamed that I hadn't read something before then.
. *
Because I think I read it in college,
huh. *
or had to in high school or college,
I don't remember it.
when Jennie had to read it at Gettysburg
her someone,
I think it was, some actress reading it.
how interesting.
they had an abridged version of it on tape.
I got that for her,
she loved doing that.
I'll bet,
I remember that was the book.
think it's around here somewhere,
(( Right ))
I wouldn't be,
I'm just going to have to put it,
in the car sometimes and listen to it.
I read that,
I'm trying to think,
usually I try find something long that,
I'm going to,
I have long periods of time, like Christmas vacation, or, when I know I'm not going to be doing anything for a while,
that's what I do too.
that's about it, because otherwise I'm reading so much for school.
have just started reading a book.
it's for school,
it's for,
there's literary jour ,
not a literary journal,
kind of a journal the history of ideas starting to be published, from U T D.
The first issue doesn't come out until next year,
I'm doing some reviews of books, to sort of recommend or not a full scale review should be done for the journal,
how neat.
it's really neat because these are brand new books
just got a, I got one,
most of the stuff is on, literary criticism and philosophy,
and religion and all that.
This one is on Johann Sebastian Bach,
it's a biography,
that is really interesting,
that's fascinating.
it really is.
it's so long,
don't really have the time to read the whole thing,
I think,
eventually I'll go back to it.
it was written,
copyright is nineteen ninety one,
it's a brand new book.
it's a brand new book.
would be wonderful
to read something like that.
shed some light on, some,
aspects Bach's genius the, more sociological things, like idea to be a musician was as much, of a family occupation as anything.
that was
it was families had just loads of musicians .
they just went from generation,
probably to generation,
that's right.
just all passing it from one to the other.
that's the way it was, I'm sure back then.
that's interesting.
it was just really interesting,
if kind of what,
I have to
not only I it to decide whether or not it should be reviewed, but also, because the board of advisers for this, journal a really respected name, who's scholar music,
I'm supposed to decide whether I think this man might be a worthy person to be in that position on the board
I don't know if I want to take that responsibility or not,
that's rough.
at least I,
That's real rough.
can tell them what I think,
it's real interesting.
that's a neat thing to be involved in. *
it is.
Because alma mater, Gettysburg, I think they were just starting a magazine *
that was similar to that.
I think that's probably thing to do
Yes .
in small colleges,
that it,
a lot of small colleges doing things,
like that,
because it attracts really lot people's interest.
That's one way,
it's really good public relations for small schools,
I think so .
another one of my projects this summer it's helping a professor, compile a bunch of translations various poems for a book that he's writing,
C and
so I'm learning the names, if not the actual contents, of a lot of different poems and a lot of French people.
translations, what do you mean, translations
for instance, a Baudelaire poem that was written,
in the French and then has been translated into English by,
various people.
I see.
the translations are all so different from one another.
All different.
that's interesting.
it's multiple translations of single works
that's pretty much what I'm doing as far as,
my work, is just kind of compiling,
all that for him.
That's great.
It's real interesting.
Boy, you really lift me up to a different,
. *
here dealing with,
. *
cleaning the stove
let me tell you, *
I'm ,
There are days when I would )) ,
I wish I were dealing with Baudelaire.
really doing that .
That would be nice.
I don't know if I've told you,
this is not on the subject,
What do you think about it?
feel in light of some of the accidents and so forth that have happened lately, that I think there are some occupations such as the health field, the transportation field,
they're already doing it in the armed forces, where they handle weapons and so forth,
they do it to prisoners
I, I, I feel like it should be mandatory in some professions,
I think an employer feels that he wants drug test employees and they don't like it, then they should not be employed there .
That was,
I would not mind it.
especially agree that if it's an area where they could cause somebody else,
harm or injury, absolutely.
I don't have a problem at all with employers, testing in the hiring process,
I don't, I don't have a problem with them too much, testing even after the fact,
I do a little bit wouldn't hurt anybody.
I don't know,
sometimes I think they carry it a little bit too far.
unless an employer has a reason to
believe that the work competency the hurting the business.
maybe it's,
it's not a problem.
Number one because generally they are involved in that type of thing they are into theft
as an employer, I would think that would be,
the first,
it's not going to be wholesale because of the cost.
There's no way.
my concern is, school bus drivers.
Tr ,
the train drivers,
I'm not even,
I'm in education,
I'm not even opposed to it for that.
I'm concerned in the medical field.
I think they should screen for alcohol in these areas, too
I wish they would.
because I consider that a drug.
I wish they would,
that, I think, is even probably more widely abused
by, the masses
drugs, so to speak.
when you consider they could be driving an airplane
I know.
or driving a bus, or a train,
it doesn't take that long.
They don't have to be totally roaring drunk
just a little
off on their timing
mean life.
Now T I has the random testing policy
our names or our employee numbers or whatever are pool
I've already been tested once when I was hired once since they initiated this random testing program.
I work with one girl who was tested, her name randomly selected three times in six months
my word.
I think that's the only reason I have a problem with it, when reason
to suspect someone,
getting a little bit,
that's enough to make anybody paranoid .
as long as you accept that it is testing
that way you can't feel like somebody's out to get me.
it's almost like being selected for jury duty .
your name came out of pot when they spun the wheel,
just the way it is.
Either just the lucky or the unlucky one, depending on how you look at it.
rather have it that way, to know that I was chosen at random by a computer than to think that somebody turned me in
because think when you let other employees turn in people,
There are so many people their petty axes to grind
it could really get
out of hand.
I would really rather know, however,
there's got to be some backup to say that
somebody does observe you a party, using drugs
I would think that it would be their obligation to report that.
To report it,
I guess you'd report that to a supervisor, maybe
Personnel, or something,
anonymously or something
because would feel very uncomfortable working with someone I knew was using either illegal drugs or abusing alcohol,
I'd just
I'd feel really uncomfortable.
I don't know what kind of work you do,
would be, even be a situation where you were at a machine and working with somebody that was that way.
a lot of people who work on the line.
I'm in accounting,
it wouldn't,
they couldn't hurt me with their ten key or something,
out on the line, they've got people working some
serious equipment.
just think employers have to have, especially given today, the drug abuse that goes on, I just think employers have to have some kind of way to see that they're not being put at
Put at risk.
risk. *
I agree
they're the ones who are going to have the lawsuits, the insurance claims, et cetera,
I'm not sure but what some of the insurance claims aren't due to, illnesses brought on by drug abuse or alcohol abuse.
in the long run, we're all paying for that
protects us in the long run hopefully
when they do that.
was trying to remember, there was a court case, here where I live, just a few months ago.
The city workers, they wanted to,
the city government wanted to institute the random drug testing
the city workers, took them to court to protest, saying that it invaded search and seizure amendment
it's still tied up in the legal channels.
They haven't ruled on whether they can test them or not.
I'm curious especially since T I s
To see how that's,
a local, employer is also already doing it, seeing what they'll say about it especially since,
just a small group of the employees that are concerned?
seems like the whole group of city employees that's raising a stink over it.
just don't want to be drug tested.
been in a situation where somebody said you have to be drug tested.
my husband's retired from I R S agents.
However, this isn't a problem that we have
either alcohol or drug,
in our minds we're thinking what's the big deal.
that's the way I looked at it.
If I had something to hide, it's one thing,
you don't,
it's not as big a deal,
you sometimes wonder when these people protest so much whether they're really concerned
about their rights, or whether they're really concerned about something else.
they say, if you give them the right to do this, then they're going to take some other right away from you,
firm ,
I don't believe that.
I think that an employer has the right to ask you to do anything,
of course, now, too, is that when you, come into a company, you sign a paper saying that I will go take a,
I'll let you start.
Do you all keep a budget,
how do you hold to yours? .
never keep a budget.
My budget or philosophy, I guess, is spend as little as possible.
good .
Especially for these times.
of always worked.
that depends, on the individual if they can I guess have self control.
that's a lot of it.
I know we tried several different ways.
One time we tried something that really worked
we didn't keep it up.
I passed it on to a friend
she won't quit doing it.
She loves it
that was the envelope system.
Where you go ahead and decide about how much based on what you did last month that you are going to spend,
you put the cash in envelopes marked for that.
you have one for entertainment and one for groceries et cetera.
for some reason taking it out of that envelope and seeing it in cash instead of in check form, causes you to realize how much is left.
she even writes down on the envelope as she subtracts and kind of debits on each envelope,
what she's buying.
at the end if she has any left, that much is for fun or entertainment.
they kind of work it that way.
We tried for a while
a seems like the problem that they were having things that worked was not planning enough for the incidentals that we couldn't think about.
those are the ones that will kill you.
fee or the car repair or the things that weren't supposed to be every month.
couldn't probably be bothered doing that
every month,
That's what I mean.
It was a hassle .
ever since,
we've been married almost thirty years now
my husband got paid once a month.
you learn to get,
kind of hard .
You learn to get through, to the end of the month
do you sort of self budget even,
you wouldn't on payday think, boy, I can go do this and that and this and that.
You kind of think this is got to str ,
you kind of divide it in fourths in a way, don't you?
if you charge things, you pay all your bills at the beginning of the month,
when you get paid,
you get paid the last day or next to the last day.
You pay all your bills
there isn't anything left to spend anyway.
that's true.
. *
What we're in the process of doing right now is paying off our credit cards entirely.
huh. *
we're going to go ahead and try to just live on what we earn instead of guessing ahead of what we probably will have next month .
we tried to,
we are paying them off now.
we're not there yet.
there was a time when maybe we didn't take all of them off,
you just sort of had to watch what you put in,
because you hate to pay those finance charges,
That's right.
when you see how much it is.
That's right.
for most of,
I'm a substitute teacher,
I've only substituted, I guess, for the last fifteen years,
there's only been really one working.
same here.
works for me
I can't see that it would work for probably the majority of people.
I could say it's kind of,
you probably have a little extra than you have to have, to,
you know what I'm saying?
the difference there where sometimes I know if we've had an especially bad month and we're just almost getting down to payday, then I think if we could really budget,
we tried one tim ,
I know when we were planning to buy the new car and we hadn't had a car payment in five years, we had to go ahead and write down each month what it was that every penny went for,
to see how much was going to be left,
that was a real eye opener.
. *
it is when you do it that way.
huh. *
have lived by that every week would have been tough for me because sometimes I'll spend less on groceries but we'll go out.
it's kind of hard to say this is how much you're going to spend going out for fun.
This is how much you're going to spend .
It's kind of hard.
eat out a good deal at this point.
Do you?
started subbing just to go on a vacation and saved,
all that money because I knew that you couldn't, spending,
Right .
five thousand dollars on a vacation,
or whatever.
We were going to go for ten weeks,
in nineteen eighty
I started,
How nice.
working in nineteen eighty seven and just saved,
for three years.
what minuscule amount I made
. W ,
that way you just didn't put it on your credit card,
it was paid for.
it made a big,
you enjoyed it better probably.
Yeah, (( )) .
I think that that's difficult for most people,
then my father was,
I think so too.
very Scotch
you never could afford anything although we could afford everything if he wanted to.
if you're out in a department store and there's a sale, you're just real careful not to let your urges get hold of you?
That's what I'm working toward.
I think you're probably much ahead of me there
I'm working on it.
I never worried about saving money because in the savings plan at work
they took it out
Same here,
same here.
I think though that we need to have some liquid around that you don't have to go through the company to get .
we never had too much of that
then we never had any really emergencies that,
That came up.
we didn't buy really new or expensive cars.
I think the most, we ever spent for a new car was like six thousand dollars.
they were mainly used cars.
that's the best thing to do.
My husband said the other day it was the worst mistake we ever did to buy a new car because it wasn't worth it from the day after.
we've been frugal in that.
Rather frugal.
going to payoff on retirement.
In that respect.
I guess we've completed,
do you think we've been here to in ,
each time they used to call in and tell me their space is limited and to please,
How would you go about organizing a family reunion?
a ,
I grew up in the deep south like south Alabama.
whenever I think of family reunions,
my family, got together almost every week.
there would be like thirty people.
people talk about, big family reunions
I think,
I have a friend who just went to, Wyoming to some big ranch, where there were four hundred people
for their family reunion.
how I would go about doing it is I would just call all my relatives.
came from,
my father has, five sisters and two brothers
my mother has four brothers and two sisters.
I ca ,
both of my parents had big families,
together, just always.
Now it's different because I live here
when I go home I try to see the families, as much of the family as I can
it's real different.
I grew up in a real normal setting.
With all of you living so close together.
Sunday dinner was at my grandmother's
like I said there would be people,
everyone would just bring things
my grandmother would cook and cook and cook.
i ,
I come from a very small family.
we planned a family reunion this spring. where we are from Texas
my family is from Ohio
we met in Florida.
the seven of us went on a cruise and then went to Disney together.
that's all the family,
planning our family was very easy , (( you know )) .
I guess so.
It really sounds like it was fun.
we had a wonderful tim ,
I almost forgot the topic,
I was waiting so long it to find somebody.
It's on your favorite T V shows and why.
what is your favorite T V show?
MAJOR DAD.
you like that one?
love it,
I think it promotes good family values,
it's funny.
I've never really watched that one.
it's funny how you can just get in a mode where you only watch certain shows
That's ri ,
only a few like to watch routinely.
What kind do you like to watch?
Probably my favorite is,
I like shows like GROWING PAINS
what's the other one now, they moved from Tuesday night to Wednesday night,
I don't get to watch it very much.
WONDER YEARS?
WONDER YEARS,
that's my favorite.
I like both of those real much also.
think basically, they promote family values.
WONDER YEARS,
guess that is supposed to be put out at a time when I was growing up or whatever.
I guess I can really relate to it,
it's just a real cute show .
guess I like the shows that really have a real sense of, I don't know, honesty or sort of a purity value, I guess.
I do, too.
don't like of the shows I've liked in the past, like, GOLDEN GIRLS
some of them tend to get so risque,
when you
have children
watching it, that sometimes really starts to bother me
that's one of the reasons,
if you want to go all time favorite show, probably one of them was LITTLE HOUSE ON THE PRAIRIE
my wife really likes that show,
which I was, I always felt was wonderful
many of them nowadays, like I said, I think are just,
go after,
like I said, the risque stuff, just I guess they think that's what people want to watch.
there was,
there's a sense of I guess, purity in the show,
one of my favorite shows used to be HAPPY DAYS
Richie always used to be honest and pure
I guess,
when he left the show, it seemed to be missing that part of it
I never did like it after that
I don't know,
the same thing in WONDER YEARS and a lot of the shows that I like to watch.
There always seems to be that kind of value in there somewhere.
do you like the sports programming?
enjoy those also, almost much to a certain extent.
our whole house is baseball fans
we enjoy that,
you're going to watch a game tonight?
yeah .
have a favorite for the series or anything?
probably the Pirates,
only because of Steve Bushel, I guess
otherwise I really don't care that much,
annoyed that the Rangers got rid of him,
I'd like to see him do well, all the way to the bank
I guess .
he's a nice guy.
. *
I take it you live in the Dallas area.
Pardon? *
Do you live in the Dallas area?
I live in Garland,
like Steve Bushel,
I don't really like the Pirates.
I'm a big Saint Louis Cardinals fan
pulling for the Braves over all,
they've come from so far down,
I really would like to see them do well.
I keep hoping the Rangers are going to do .
year they,
maybe they'll make it, I don't know
I like sports programming quite a bit,
I guess favorite shows are the,
that getting back to the point that you made, that's really true,
we were watching ROSEANNE, I guess, couple of weeks ago,
her daughter was talking about birth control,
my daughter was kind of walking in during that time,
she's only seven years old,
so many of them now, it just seems like they feel like they have to stick that stuff in,
I'm an adult
I have adult tastes now,
I don't need that
like things that, wholesome, I guess.
seems to be more our values, too,
the WONDER YEARS, it's kind of risque stuff teenagers,
you can kind of relate to it
I don't know,
I enjoy that a lot
I agree with you,
it's funny because the shows,
a lot of them that used to be considered risque, like THREE'S COMPANY and stuff, I think maintained,
people would watch them because
the period that was going on there,
he really wasn't messing around with the girls,
everybody perceived him that way, and stuff
as soon as, he went to move in with another girl, the show just died
interesting that a lot of the shows are that way,
I'm ready.
we're going to talk about, what kind of clothes we wear while we work.
Do you work for T I?
I work at home .
you do,
you're like me then .
I stay home also.
Do you have children?
I have two, a seven year old and three and a half year old.
that's good.
How about you?
I have four girls
they're nine and five and three and a newborn.
you are busy
they're all girls,
I have two girls,
all girls around here .
Girls are nice, aren't they?
really sweet.
Anyway, as far as clothing goes, my wardrobe changes all the time, depending on my size .
That's how I am too.
We go from regular kind of spring clothes
regular kind of fall clothes
pregnant clothes,
. *
clothes that are in between where you're not down to regular size yet
huh. *
or you're on your way up from regular size
that's funny.
they're all in boxes or bags,
they all rotate all the time
kind of the same stuff all the time, though,
don't, get a whole lot new right now,
I know that's kind of how I am.
I said, who ever I talk to is going to be board, because when it's summer time, I'm wearing shorts,
when it's cold, I'm wearing sweat pants, and
most of, unless I'm going to something special that my daughter's doing, or something like that,
like jeans a lot.
I used to wear jeans all the time until after I had kids,
now nothing seems to be comfortable because I bulge in all the wrong places,
find I have to get the right kinds, though, or it's not comfortable
works best if they have pleats in the front
they have to,
my waist is kind of small compared to the hips,
it has to be not the straight up and down levis kind .
I know what you mean.
when pregnant through the summer this time
I wore dresses all the time
because it was so much cooler
and so much more comfortable
not to have something binding on your waist
That's right.
One of my daughters was born in June,
I remember, I wore sundresses and, just those real cool dresses almost the entire time .
I had one that was born in December,
it was a little bit, because it was a real warm winter
into November and December I was still wearing the short sleeve dresses,
course I'm always hot when I'm pregnant, too,
didn't really need warm clothes
I really have been spoiled by sweat pants and these new, units outfits, that are just knit,
I haven't tried those,
they are so comfortable.
just, a light weight
kind of a sweat suit but made out of that real light polyester stuff,
it's just great because them up, or dress them up, if you want,
you can just wear them with, tennis shoes if you want.
they're really nice
I've enjoyed wearing those
I don't know if they expected us to talk about blazers and such here
I sure never wear them .
I don't either,
had professional jobs where we go into an office and have to wear a jacket or something
that would make a big difference.
I worked part time when my oldest was a baby
I had to wear a dress every day,
I'm watching, Janice,
it was a little bit hard to, wind down,
have to drive six thirty five home
I would be burning up, like in the summer time
by the time I got home I was like, I've got to get out of these clothes .
remember that from when I was,
I worked way before I was married, even,
offices, they keep them so cold
in the summer that you can't wear regular summer clothes
and be comfortable
you've got to have something to
add to it or something
I don't know if you can,
when you drive home, especially if you're in a lot of traffic
You burn up,
which you are in Dallas,
I always hated to run my air conditioner just sitting still all the time
I was afraid I'd make the car overheat.
It's hard on the car.
I would roll my windows down,
it was still a hundred degrees
I would just be sweltering hot by the time I picked my daughter up,
I had a friend who used to take shorts to work,
after work she'd go in the bathroom and change her clothes
that's funny,
I thought, that's probably a good idea
because you really
at least something cooler,
you can ruin your good clothes getting so hot in them
That's true,
especially if it's something that has to be dry cleaned, which I don't have any of.
I don't have to worry a whole lot about that.
when you have children, you don't,
even when I go to church I have to have something I can just throw in the washer when I'm through.
That's right,
something that it doesn't matter if it gets spit up on, too .
That's right, or if you get it dirty or whatever, *
I know it.
I've always been a creature of comfort, too
Me, too.
if it's not comfortable, forget it.
I know,
that's how I am, too,
Wool was never comfortable to me.
me neither,
I have,
Where do you enjoy dining out?
I generally go to the quickie places just because they're cheap.
do you have children?
we have four,
most of them are gone now
might be,
we were taking, four, five and six people out .
that makes a difference, doesn't it.
What area of the country do you live in?
I'm in Texas.
I am, too.
in Ohio prior to this.
I did, too.
. *
I'm from the Dayton area.
we were up near Cleveland. *
I look for service even at the quickie places
type things.
I don't like to go to the drive thrus because sometimes they get your order wrong
That's right.
you're stuck
it's a pain to have to stand there and see what it is before you leave
I really don't like the drive thrus that much.
like to go and eat there.
I would say service, atmosphere, and whether the food is good,
on going out, I like steaks.
we try to hit those places when we can.
When we travel we look for Wendy's because we have kids,
my husband and I like getting the salads or the lighter meals
that way they can get their burgers and fries
we can have a salad bar
sometimes we drive for a couple hundred miles until we find a Wendy's,
. *
because it's all either McDonald's or Dairy Queens,
yeah, *
in the countries, unless it's a large city, I guess Dairy Queen and Wal Mart are their main .
that's right,
That's what you find,
I know.
My husband likes, Dairy Queens.
He likes their milk shakes and their chili cheese
dogs, I guess,
he's a fan Dairy Queen,
we'll go even in town here at times, just as change although
I'm not that excited about it.
out so much it's gotten so I don't like to really eat any place
yet I hate to cook food at home
that might be why I look for inexpensive places
just because we're eating out probably five nights a week
we eat junk food at home
now my husba ,
what are some of favorite inexpensive places?
we'll go to them all.
We sort of take turns.
I sort of favor the ones,
if I have a coupon we can go there
if not we can't, because it's cheaper
mine is, based.
we'll go get pizza at Little Caesar's, although the kids prefer Domino's.
we are Little Caesar fans here
that's where we always go,
it's just a lot cheaper Domino's,
We go to Grandy's quite a bit I would say.
we like Grandy's, too.
McDonald's, we've sort of been off of that for a while
no particular reason,
maybe we avoided Wendy's the last few years because our daughter worked there
she never wanted us to show up there
go there that much.
Where do you go if you like to have a nice meal out, or a big meal?
A nice meal,
Where do you go for steaks?
It's usually when we're out of town
I'll order steak or steak and lobster combined
it's really not in town.
You ever been to Houston's on Belt Line?
That's where we go to get steaks
they have a teriyaki steak there,
when we have something to celebrate, we head to Houston's.
They don't take reservations,
you wind up waiting about an hour
the food is good,
they've got a nice patio area that you can wait and get something to drink, unless you get there at five o'clock,
then you can go right through.
they have real good signature salads there and nice steaks,
that's our nice place to go.
We don't usually take the kids when we go there,
we don't go out that much,
we do go out without kids.
We're usually picking things up quickly,
we just don't dwell on food too much,
with my husband traveling he can get all he needs
of that during the week going to those places
That's right.
it doesn't really matter to him.
He'd probably just like to stay home.
that's the way with my husband.
He's gone during the week and likes to eat at home on the weekends,
I've been eating at home all week long with the kids and would like to go out somewhere,
we have a conflict of interests on the weekend.
I think, never have liked to cook food,
I think it all began eating out when we had, the boys different, baseball
on baseball tea ,
it was mainly baseball teams
my husband would coach,
we were never home at the same time.
I'm not one that's going to fix, the meal at two o'clock in the afternoon so they can eat it all day whenever
they're there.
If there not there in between five and six, then I guess we don't eat today, *
you go
you fend for yourself.
You go somewhere else.
really snowballed when we got down here, when I started to sub, make money, I went I'll just sub to, *
the types of vacations that I usually take,
I usually come back more tired after my vacation,
then I do, before I take it.
I need to definitely take a vacation where I do is rest.
I guess to do that I'd probably have to take it at home.
Oh .
the vacation spots that I like to go to are places like the Bahamas and Florida.
I enjoy the beach.
We went to, Cape Hatteras.
were out visiting one of our kids in Maryland,
we went down to Cape Hatteras for a few days.
waves were huge.
I've never quite seen waves like this one
I was standing in water not more than, my ankles
when the waves go in the waves go out they kind of all of a sudden you're in sand above your ankles.
I was standing there talking to my daughter
this really big wave came and totally threw me,
one foot did not come out of the sand,
it tore the ligaments in my knee .
I'm never going to another beach again, ever.
I'm ma ,
You might be like I am.
going to the beach and to beach areas,
I really don't like to get in
I prefer a swimming pool .
love to go and play around.
At least I always did although like the mountains.
I don't really like hot weather
that's my biggest gripe about living here.
I basically, don't want to go to a hot place on vacation .
I can understand that.
dream vacation is Alaska.
This is
That would be nice.
just someplace I've always wanted to go
someday I hope we can afford to just take a humdinger of a vacation up there.
I know I've taken several vacations to Colorado,
I used to live in Colorado, sometime ago for a couple of years,
I really enjoyed that.
like that.
I haven't been to Yellowstone for a long, long time
been talking about going there next summer .
I don't know we'll have
I've never been up to the Yellowstone area.
It's been a long time.
it seems when your family different places, a lot of trips involved going to visit .
That's right.
That's right.
You got that.
we usually go up to Wisconsin at least once a year
because this is where my husband and I are both from.
my mother and his mother live up there feeling
lost and alone because we moved down here .
we've got one of kids lives out on the east coast
we have to, go to those.
a lot of vacation areas you can go to then.
I know
I'm tired of them .
I want to go someplace different up there.
That's right.
idea I guess of the ideal vacation would be to begin with,
just absolutely, first class fly where I want to, rent a car if I want to.
just nicest hotels and stuff like that and
and not worry if somebody says, let's take this little side trip, and not have to sit there and figure out, again (( fit )) that in there or not.
what I, that's what I would like to do.
I have no interest, for example, in taking a cruise.
To me why somebody would want to ride around on a boat for a few days is mind boggling.
It would be sort of,
I feel like it would be confining.
I would get on a plane and get there
huh .
and then enjoy myself.
I just,
does absolutely nothing for me.
I don't know
I can say that I think favorite spots are still where there's mountains a lot of trees wildlife to view
I like that kind of stuff.
I could just sit there all day and look at the scenery .
do that too,
I think the money, I would probably go to Europe every year.
I think that it all over there in just a few tiny,
(( )) miles.
there's mountains
there's beaches
it's all right there.
guess I've never really thought about it that way.
we have a daughter who's almost thirteen
a very picky eater
standard excuse for not going someplace like that is, Holly would starve to death if took her
(( into the )) country
would like if, it was anywhere in the world to go, I guess, even though it's hot,
I would like to go to Africa.
Real excited when I heard this.
So far I've been trying to call all day because I keep getting these subjects like capital punishment
football, I love this.
This is great.
we're from Colorado
we're Bronco fans .
we just moved here two years ago
they went to the Superbowl when we first moved here
they lost again.
That was pretty pitiful,
they seem to be doing pretty good this year.
I was from Illinois originally,
I grew up a Bear fan.
then we moved here
even when we knew we were being transferred here we became Cowboy fans.
we had some wonderful, wonderful years there under Roger (( Staubach )) .
we kind of got spoiled.
We expected it to continue forever.
I think they're doing pretty well this year though.
have they just lost one game this year?
I think two.
I know they lost, to Washington and Philadelphia.
they're not doing bad.
People are pretty surprised that beat the Giants.
wasn't that fun.
I went to the balloon festival in Plano and carried my little portable radio with me,
I must say I attracted a lot of attention.
I bet .
People running up saying, what's the score, what's the score?
boy, I bet all the men that got direct down there were just right on it .
That's right
that's exactly what they said, my wife dragged me away from the television.
I wasn't,
I had forgotten
I probably wouldn't have been there.
a big football fan.
I never wou ,
my father was a football fan my whole life
he used to have the football pool at the office and all this stuff
I just hated it.
I think I was just mad because he spent so much time watching football on Sundays.
when I met my husband, he was watching football
I figured out that I couldn't see him all weekend.
I couldn't see him until Tuesday because MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL, if I didn't,
like football.
That's exactly where both of the wives came from I think.
It was,
it's easier to join them than fight them.
if you want to see them, you might just as well enjoy football.
I used to tease my husband sometimes and say, my gosh bet the house or something this week to get so excited about,
these games.
I do.
love it.
a fun sport.
I'm just hoping that the Broncos can get back on their feet.
We're not convinced that we're going to be Cowboy fans yet.
it takes a little brainwashing first.
I guess we'll first have to get to used to the idea that we're staying here .
That's even harder.
Are you, transit usually?
do you stay not in one place too long?
we're just,
this is only the second place we've lived.
We've only been married for five and a half years.
we have two small children,
he just got transferred here to E Systems,
it will take you a little while
you'll probably always have a soft spot in your heart though for
for Denver.
I tell you this,
the weather here and there's no mountains or anything,
when you go to a football game in Colorado snow
it's an adventure .
I know.
you've just got to drive down stadium
if they close it in, we'll have the best of both worlds then
as they're talking about doing.
Dan Reeves is a pretty neat guy anyway.
he's from here.
that's right,
he was boys.
Yeah .
That's what I hear.
cheer against Denver unless they're playing the Cowboys.
Which is rare.
Which is good.
it's funny
Colorado when the Broncos went to the Superbowl three times in the last, I don't know, five or six years whatever it's been. they have these songs on the radio.
They take songs change them to fit, the Broncos and stuff.
they had,
I was just thinking about one the other day.
if I saw a picture of John Elway cafeteria at school,
they did the Johnny Angel.
They did Johnny Elway to that.
Johnny Elway.
I was trying to get my son to sing that.
My husband was just having a fit don't have him sing that song .
do a lot of fun things.
I think kind of sport that I think you kind of, it's hard not to like it.
there's just,
there is so much about it
It's exciting.
to like.
it's so exciting.
when the Cowboys won the Superbowl here, of course, they put together some real cute songs,
we all ran out and bought the records,
now we feel like they're kind of a collector's item.
they probabl ,
wish I would have bought the tape when I was
think about that a lot.
when I first moved here did this.
This interstate seventy five song.
Or whatever it was about Central Expressway and getting it done in nineteen ninety five and everything.
That was kind of a funny song
they sure do,
it seems to me like they really love their Cowboys here.
Even when they were losing pitifully, people still support them.
We drive by some houses everyday that have big signs,
we love the Cowbo ,
we paying too much in taxes,
are we getting what we pay for?
What's your opinion?
it's kind of a broad subject,
I think there are some areas pretty well, get our money's worth,
also think there are a lot of areas especially in, where we're short changed. lot of money spent for, things that are not used
in the Air Force
there was equipment at every base I was ever on that was just going to waste.
It was just sitting and rusting
tend to agree with you.
When it comes to government spending, there are so many studies done that don't mean anything
we'll spend hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of dollars on.
it's nice to know something doesn't work or something doesn't exist,
it could be put to more practical use.
think that, it's tone of our times that politicians, are into themselves more than they are into, doing something worthwhile for the people they represent, which is really unfortunate.
That is true.
I agree with you in that area.
I have a tendency to,
I'm Texas
I read, how our politicians voted each week in the paper.
interesting how the votes vary
what they ran on in platform
don't necessarily come true in their voting in the senate or Congress, whatever.
And don't really respond to, people who write them and call them
unless they're in the limelight and under pressure .
I think we get short changed on that.
that's very true.
state do you live in?
What do you think about Robin Hood?
, I work for school district
hurt us a lot.
there has to be some way, I think, to equalize education opportunities.
we tend to think, I think, big government, tends to think that the solution to everything is to throw money at it.
I don't,
that's just not true.
money is going to take the place of intelligence or, problem solving skills.
I think too many things money can't buy are important as far as education is concerned.
That's true.
What school district do you work for?
I work for Plano.
we're comparable.
As a matter of fact, I just paid my Richardson taxes because I live in Richardson and supplemented the Robin Hoods very thoroughly, I think.
I think we've,
Our taxes went up tremendously.
we have got it on the line , don't we.
it's not going to get any better.
it's going up and up and up.
I used to live in the Plano school district,
there was a taxpayers organization that, finally communicated the message people in Plano that, we didn't want our taxes raised.
I remember there was about years ago.
I think living in Richardson, we're kind of spoiled because I think our money's worth as far as the city is concerned, I think than probably city in the country.
did you read in the Dallas paper where they increased pay by thirty three percent
Is that incredible?
after they laid off all those teachers.
the biggest mess I've ever heard of.
justify raising anybody's salary have to lay people off?
I'm not going to complain because Plano a pay raise this year.
You all got a pay raise this year.
Is that correct?
I think the teachers
I don't know about administrators.
an administrator,
don't get a raise anymore.
I just,
Okay .
I, I work part time and just get, ,
my pay doesn't change.
Are you on the early retirement?
are you enjoying it?
very much.
course, still work two part time jobs .
it's not really total retirement.
it's interesting, because when you look at what Richardson has done with the early retirement you,
We're supposed to discuss crime in the United States and what can be done with it.
That's a broad topic .
They're usually pretty broad anyway.
Where do you live?
we live in Plano.
that's a,
where you are?
I'm in Richardson,
when I heard the topic I was thinking of the thing down at, Maceo High School
in Dallas.
that is so frightening.
It is,
do you have children in school?
mine are already in college now,
I don't have to,
at least when they were in high school, it was beginning but not like the rampages.
I have,
my oldest is his first year in high school
we have all this look forward to,
it is really frightening, to think that you can't even send them to school in safety.
certainly, you can't just turn them loose in the middle of Dallas,
when you can't even, send them on their normal activities in safety, really frightening.
That's true.
I really,
they're coming down on the principal,
I really don't know what they can do.
it's just in so much of society with the violence
the kids having access to weapons and drugs
really don't know can be done.
don't understand guns could be so available.
, I don't either,
apparently they just really are.
, to me, in Plano you would think that would be as innocent as you could get being in large area.
my son comes home and tells me that, he hears kids talk about having guns
, someone came to his football practice about two weeks ago with a gun.
my heavens.
it just scared me to death
they called the police
nothing happened,
my goodness , could have easily.
maybe that's the answer to crime is getting more prosecution.
Maybe so.
I don't,
now feel we're living in an impartial society as far as people seeing something happen, across the street, or seeing someone get mugged, or unfortunately, raped,
people don't do anything.
A woman was raped in Richardson, I read in the paper about a two weeks ago now.
all the neighbors said they heard her yelling for help.
did anything.
I just can't imagine that.
they heard someone calling for help.
Nobody even called the police to say, I hear a strange screaming
I'm afraid, if you,
I don't blame people with today's society about going out to help themselves.
I can see, especially if you heard screams from a house or something, not going over there maybe, because, it could be dangerous,
certainly I can't understand not calling the police.
I just,
really frightening that to live in our own little cocoons
probably one of the best things we could do for crime is to participate ourselves in its prevention.
think you're right there.
I guess people just kind of keep their noses pointed in their own business,
I think that's real dangerous
I don't know.
I try to tell my kids kind of be aware of what's around them,
, if you see a situation that looks like it could be trouble, just get out of it or call for help, whichever.
the call for help is what scares me now because
I don't know,
people just don't,
I don't know,
I can't say they don't care, because people just have to care about another person.
it's that not getting involved, that impersonal society, I think we live in today.
maybe this thing the child at school, maybe that will make people think a bit more take some steps correct it.
I don't know,
really frightening.
Yeah .
Let me ask you,
getting back to your son's football practice because it really sort of astonished me that police aren't doing,
he didn't have a license for the gun, correct?
I don't know.
I don't know the details.
This was not a child that was on the team.
It was someone that, up at the field.
it was student age person,
I'm not even,
Tell me what you like to do.
collect antique tools, for one thing, sort of in an antique business,
it's a little
I'm building log house at a farm that I have in East Texas, which is
a hundred miles from here.
it's really neat.
course I've been working on it for five years,
how wonderful.
Are you close to getting it done?
it's getting real close to
of course there's still a lot of work to be done,
when you get it completely, the shell finished, you still have a lot of stuff to do inside,
Are you going to move your whole family over there then?
actually, I'm not even sure,
I may,
I'll probably always have a place here in Richardson or Dallas .
kind of your getaway place.
it's beautiful,
Eastern Hardwood, forest,
there are a lot of pine trees,
it's mostly oaks
(( )) .
how beautiful,
it's pretty flat there?
it's kind of, hilly,
it's, low hills,
it's not,
I've only been to Texas once.
I have two sisters in Texas now, one in Austin, one in Dallas,
the one in Dallas is the one that got me to doing this
I thought Austin was beautiful
I liked the hills
in Aus ,
and the trees,
it's really different because chalk hills down there,
you've always,
lived in Texas, have you?
except for time in service.
Born and raised Texan,
I had never been there,
that's pretty neat.
My sisters both seem to like it pretty well.
My brother in law works for the University, in Dallas.
Wh ,
He's admissions director.
which one?
University of Texas in Dallas.
it's just north of me here.
got a job there
this is his first year,
it's been a real interesting thing for them .
That's great.
they seem to like it okay.
I think they're too far away from me,
maybe some day they can get closer,
we'll see.
Pretty good trip.
I'm mother of four,
basically I'm just,
real busy with my kids right now in sports,
we have a little Halloween talent show tonight,
I substitute at the schools part time.
that's great.
I am a travel agent at heart,
my hobby is just,
I love traveling being involved of that and finding out more,
it's real hard to work in the summers and holidays and weekends when you have four children and a husband,
No, kidding.
I reluctantly gave that career up and am just substituting at the school,
I've been librarian all this week, which has been real interesting,
I'm enjoying it.
I'm around my kids
That's pretty easy substituting isn't it?
it's great,
it's great,
what else do I do,
I do lots of cross stitching when I have time
I enter things in our little state fair,
that's pretty fun.
That's great.
actually my hobbies my sports. Tennis,
I play tennis.
I love tennis too
do you?
do you ski?
we snow ski.
We snow ski at Mount Bachelor mostly
that's great.
in Oregon,
have you ever been there?
Wonderful place.
I've skied in Colorado
we usually go to New Mexico because it's a little cheaper,
Where in Colorado?
I've been to Telluride which is on the west side
and, Copper,
Copper is kind of my favorite up there.
and Keystone.
I guess those are the only places I've skied up there.
I would love,
I can hardly wait to get
Me, too.
up there.
getting snow?
it is snowing right now.
We're to get one to three inches tonight.
(( )) .
I heard Aspen got three feet.
on the dry side of the mountains.
Seattle is only about two and a half hours,
of course I'm a real Seahawks fan
going over that pass is just a real nightmare.
I can imagine, my lord.
we're on the colder side,
they're on the rainy side,
we're on the snowy side
children all ski
been to Whistler in Canada, which is just a marvelous place,
Whistler and Black Home is in Canada,
we've gone to Sun Valley several times,
that's great place. But
What about Utah?
Haven't been there,
I keep hearing these marvelous things
haven't either.
about Deer Valley and,
Always want to go to Canada
(( )) City,
Canada to Banff or somewhere like that .
your kids all ski?
not all of them .
kids are all grown.
my youngest son is a skier.
that's great.
my boys are at the point where they scare their mommy to death.
When they're skiing they're fearless,
they go off,
When they first said the subject, my mind went kind of blank.
I thought, I haven't taken anything back for a long time.
I haven't either,
hate returning things.
have a friend who, if she likes something, isn't sure what size somebody might need, will buy it in every color and size and, take everything back again .
a game to her,
do not like to do that .
I consider it kind of waste of my time.
I'm usually, pretty careful when I shop
I also, usually checked over things, if it's like an appliance or something to make sure, it has the features in it that I want.
Now we've had one lately, Dustbuster Plus
that we bought,
we've had it for a while,
all of a sudden it just wasn't working,
it looks like there's a part missing from it.
My husband opened it up and whatever,
of course we don't have the receipt any more,
we can't take it back .
Of course,
I think a lot of goods are made not to last real long
just to get you by five years
you'll throw it away rather than have it fixed
a wasteful society, for sure.
that's true,
lot of times though, so much to get something fixed
that you almost are just as well off buying another one
if it's,
you usually get what you pay for.
We bought some walkie talkies a couple of years ago for Christmas,
they were ten dollars,
we expected them to work nice for the little kids,
they didn't work
worth anything .
we took those back,
that's about that
all that were taken back in ages.
I think a lot of times, if you get a brand name
if it's good brand,
I think can be a lemon in anything
but, I think more often than not,
pretty well know what you're getting ahead of time,
if you buy a good one, you shouldn't have much of a problem with it,
had a car once that we tried to have declared a lemon under the lemon law
which is
It's hard.
extremely difficult to do.
We never could get it declared a lemon,
the car would go
without any warning whatsoever, you could be going down the freeway at sixty
it would stop
there was just,
we went round and round with the manufacturer everything,
they got it finally semifixed,
it was such a hassle
it just pertained to that .
really is,
gee, kind of the strangest one.
thought of food, because that's I buy,
it seems like,
I still don't have to do there,
think, too, a lot of people don't buy their warranties either because they know that when it's that old they're going to buy a new one,
I think that's true,
generally don't buy a warranty, because you think, at least for the first couple of years, nothing should go wrong with it.
my husband is really good at fixing things, too,
he usually, be able to fix anything that's minor,
that has saved us thousands of dollars, from (( )) to mechanic to
anything like that
it was interesting to,
I don't know if they're making them better or not,
hard to say.
of their parts plastic, which, makes things break easier,
I think the technology is better.
think technology is better,
not sure.
I think
About quality.
you've got a good point with the plastic and that.
I don't think necessarily that, things are being made better
everything is so automated,
things can be made without, I think
a human hand ever touching it,
an awful lot of things,
I think that certainly makes a difference the time when somebody handcrafted something and, had some pride in it.
people aren't willing to pay those prices very often, for a handcrafted something,
that's true.
if we get deserve .
do, craft work and sell stuff at shows
it's a real eye opener as far as, why people charge what they do to,
you keep up with current events?
not as well as I would like to probably
Is that right?
that's the way it goes.
in Pennsylvania.
Where in Pennsylvania?
State College,
I go to Penn State.
do you,
we're not supposed to talk about that.
We're supposed to talk about current events.
I'm a current event junkie.
watch, I try to watch the news,
I read the newspaper,
I like to read TIME magazine and PEOPLE magazine to keep up with what's going on in the world.
I see.
(( )) .
what particularly are you interested in?
I just, pretty, little, about everything.
again not everything,
I like to know pretty well what's happening.
Political things don't interest me a great deal, except I do like to stay informed enough to, feel like I halfway vote intelligently,
other than that, I just,
just the events that happen around the world interest me.
Stay in touch with it and what's going on.
Now I have to say all three of my children, none of them are too interested in current events.
I see.
I always have been
I stay up with it.
stay aware of most of the current events. newspaper?
T V news, or what?
some of both.
the newspapers sometimes
I watch C N N, that sort of thing
that's good.
I read magazines, and such.
you stay up with it pretty well, then.
that badly
interested in what's going on,
I'm particularly interested in certain things of course, like all the news about Haiti recently
because I've been down there
you've been there
you would be interested in it then.
I follow it,
I don't just read everything about it,
I'm always aware of what's going on like that
I don't know,
I feel sorry for those people down there,
they've just been so terribly mistreated for so years,
That's true.
They've never really had a good leader,
(( through )) Papa Doc,
he was
a terrible tyrant
I think it's been better since he died,
it's still been bad
even that priest that was in control there for a while that they overthrew,
I've read some things about him that too good himself.
he was much a,
he didn't mind having people bumped off for certain things,
I see.
It's, one of the reasons the U S more than they did at the time
because they weren't all that excited about him, although he's probably better than a lot of them,
then again, who,
those people are so used to it
I guess it's the only thing that works.
what do you think about the quality of news coverage in America?
I think it's pretty darned good,
I think we're lucky to have as good a coverage as we have
I really do.
sometimes they jump on it and go a little to the extreme,
the media does,
that's kind of understandable, because, of course if you watch it than once a day, it's the same thing over and over and over and over,
I listen to the radio
hear so much,
you get a little tired of it,
then again, so many people you got to understand only catch it once a day, maybe
I think the quality of news is just, I don't believe it could be better
I really don't.
I think better,
I don't think so.
would agree that it's pretty good.
I don't think our news could be better.
what else could they do to make it better.
I don't see anything that they could do.
I think that,
I don't know.
you always
want to think everything can be improved upon
I understand what you're saying,
I think that,
by trial and error over the years, I think they got it about as good as they're going to get it.
that may be so,
I think that
nothing is perfect.
I'm not always satisfied with how dig they deep into the
how deep they dig into things and such.
that's true,
I understand what you're saying,
again, I understand why they can't dig too much deeper,
that's why we have C N N.
C N N has the time, since that's all they do is news
to dig deeper.
guess it's a subject I haven't thought too much about.
I don't know if there's so much wrong with the public schools, as much as,
we're expecting too much out of them.
that might be a lot to do with it.
I know a lot of it here in my state,
I'm from Mississippi,
I'm not sure where you're from.
Minnesota, Wisconsin.
a lot of it in Mississippi here has got to do with funding.
Problems with our educational system, a lot of it's due to money.
they're trying to spend money where we don't have it
there's a lot of things we need that we just can't afford.
getting very expensive to run schools,
it is.
They've got computers now that you got to train on.
There's just
so much, more and less money to do it with.
That's true.
a has to do with, salaries too, speaking
of money.
Cause if you can't pay the right people, going to get the people that can do a good job.
I guess that in,
talking on a lot of the things as far as the discipline in the schools, think they're expecting schools to discipline the kids
I think it should go right back to the parents.
If you don't train your kids right then .
I feel the same way.
A lot has to do with how the kids were raised at home.
when the kids get to school, they try to take away a lot of things that they can do to discipline the kids.
they've so severely limited
what disciplinary action you can do.
know when I, was going to school it wasn't uncommon for a teacher to strike a student that was misbehaving.
they do that now
they could probably lose their job .
Lose their job and big lawsuit and all that.
yeah .
I feel that's got a lot to do with it.
People aren't as afraid of misbehaving as they used to be.
Yeah .
It seems (( that'd )) be a subject that don't have much to say on .
talked some about it in my state because we've had a lot of, prob ,
our governor that just got thrown out of office was trying to be real big on education
he wasn't.
a lot of his problems had to do with money mostly.
I know
if you have more money it's just logical that you can provide a better school system.
unfortunately, there's not many places to get that money.
Yeah .
Then if you don't have qualified teachers in the different (( )) ,
I know one of my physics professors at college has addressed this.
That most of the teachers at the elementary and high school level aren't scientists,
they're teachers.
they may not know a lot about what they're teaching.
Where they may have just had a teaching major and then had some social studies courses
they're trying to teach social studies.
they don't know a lot about that .
Where maybe a physics professor,
professor was a physics professor
he said a lot of teachers teaching physics today have no background of physics at the high school level.
therefore, they're teaching from a teacher's point of view and not from a physicist point of view.
that causes a lot of trouble.
I don't know,
maybe they should sit back kind of, decide on where the money's best spent.
I know in a lot of cases, different districts like to have nice fancy schools.
maybe they should be a little more, concerned with paying the right people to teach be, satisfied with maybe a little older school.
here in the town I went to high school,
high schools was blown away by a tornado.
when they rebuilt that school, they had top of the line, high tech school there.
the other schools were built back in maybe the fifties or early sixties
when, the evaluation committees came through, they praised the school that had been rebuilt while they were down grading all these other ones. Telling them what they needed to do to fix up this building
this it kind of would make you think that we'd all be better off if all the schools were blown away by tornadoes and we had to rebuild them.
know, where I came from. We didn't have a very, rich community
high school that I went to was very old
as far as I know, it's still there.
They've on it
they've never built a new one
it's probably fifty, sixty years old better
I don't foresee them, building a new one for a long time because they can't afford it.
Exactly .
what do you think about the school system?
I think having a lot of trouble right now.
I know my son goes to a private school,
I think having tough time right now budget cuts everything else going on.
why did you choose a private school?
I had one that was needed to be able to be moved along pace a little faster than he was going to be able to be moved in public school,
Public school.
has been going to private since kindergarten .
has he?
Then how does he like it?
he's loved it.
He is a senior in high school this year
he's been there all the time.
he's done it the whole twelve and, so many years
really good for him.
How big of a school is it?
overall on campus about twelve hundred, but in the about four hundred and something
it's maybe a hundred per grade.
A hundred per grade, that's a good size.
it really is.
Kind of gives them the,
I get a little leery of the real small ones that they don't get much interaction with kids
kind of looking for one that would be a mixture
they don't,
That's good.
really well,
ahead at an early age
I didn't feel like, the first three grades
even in the fourth grade where they started what they called reach was still a pull out one day program.
I just didn't think that was going get it.
I thought he needed to be exposed to a situation where he could push ahead, every day.
But yet still be with his peers
Still enjoy the,
age wise.
one thing I think I've noticed is, my oldest is in kindergarten,
I'm in a little different
You're just
getting started.
I'm just,
starting her,
seems to me that, kids these days, can really get away with murder
the teachers
they have to be so careful of the things they do and say.
I know.
makes me
a big problem.
a little nervous that, students don't seem to show that respect
We wouldn't have thought of crossing a teacher when we
were in school.
Wouldn't have thought of it
you wouldn't.
they'll stand there now with them toe to toe
the things they can say and do to a teacher they do from what I understand,
I think that's wrong.
I think we need to get back to show some respect
course, I guess the teacher used to warrant that
a lot of times it's not being taught in the home
anymore like it used to be, basic respect for
For other people
for elders
and adults and particularly responsible positions , that basic upbringing in a lot of cases
then you wind up with little brats on your hands.
how do you think that that's happened?
You think our society's just, stopped talking out,
I guess, I,
generation's just kind of changed a little bit,
the world changes,
obviously, kids are not the same now as they used to be.
they're exposed to a whole lot more things.
They have a whole lot more, variety of things that they see and do at an earlier age,
life is not maybe as simple as it was at one time,
still, I think it goes back to a commitment by the parents teach, basic values and basic, respectful of authority.
I just don't think that this
That just isn't coming through
doesn't always get emphasized
is it.
I remember, it was a big thing when they let girls wear Levi's.
We used to have to wear
had to wear
dresses, didn't you?
you had to, to dresses,
they had to be a pantsuit
it was polyester
it had to be matching
when it was skirts, it was get down on the floor
we hold the ruler up here
it's no
more than so many inches above the knee .
it was mini skirt time back there at one time.
it's really changed.
It's, really kind of gone the rounds,
I think that maybe that's effected it to some degree.
They say you kind of act how you're dressed a little bit,
I think that probably does something to do with it,
it's also,
this school your son goes to, do they, to wear a uniform
they do not do uniforms, although one, where he was between second and eighth grade
there are quite a few of your s ,
Okay .
considering you moved here from California, I guess, the rain for the past few weeks has been different than what you have down there.
we have, in California,
central California.
We have rain couple times a year
other than that, it would be maybe October and then in the spring
other than that there wouldn't be any rain.
the last few years.
been a drought out there hasn't it,
there has.
here, I know that, last year there was some ice storms while I was out of the state
I'm glad to see there haven't been any this year.
Yet .
yet .
Still could come,
Generally if we're going to get them, it's not going to happen, prior to January one.
You may get a cold snap or two or some rain or something like we've been getting in December,
usually the bitterest weather, if we're going to have any, comes in January and February.
Then by March things are getting warm again,
we really don't have, as long a cold season, I guess as people up north.
it's so hard to predict here.
It's been eighty degrees on Christmas day here before.
Lots of times.
today it's not bad out there.
it's nice.
I just came in from outside
huh .
really pretty.
It's kind of nice to have it dry all the ground out
before it rains again.
I wind up going out camping with, a bunch of boys at one time
better for us if it hasn't been this totally wet before we go .
you do that even in January,
we camp year round.
definitely different.
huh .
I guess you've been through a couple of summers here, too, right?
I have
they're not too pleasant .
It gets so humid.
To me it's humid here.
People that I know that
it is.
come from, Georgia or
It's not as
North Carolina,
they say, it's,
As Houston, say, or Atlanta,
I find it,
more humid than Arizona
California for the most part.
Were you northern California?
I was central California.
Central valley.
that was,
It's very dry there.
Dry, but pretty even climate, wasn't it?
Year round, fairly,
Not wide fluctuations.
it's pretty hot in the summer.
It's in the usually,
for a good three, four weeks we have over a hundred degrees.
it's a drier,
it's a dry heat,
Hundred , when you have a hundred here, everybody's dying .
I lived in Africa for a couple years in
that's a tropical climate
it really feels similar to this
What types of,
during the summer.
What type, what type of business takes you to those climates
was that just vacation or something?
Wycliff Bible Translators.
It's an organization where we are looking to translate the BIBLE into languages of the world that aren't yet written.
Not so much still trying to translate old texts as just trying to translate modern versions into other languages.
languages that don't have anything written yet.
this is like the first thing that's written down
first an alphabet is developed
That's interesting.
You don't think about that as when
you're thinking of things that people might be doing.
it's based here,
the international headquarters for Wycliff Bible Translators is right here Dallas.
with the home office now .
right now I am.
That's what brought me here,
in all there are a lot worse climates than Dallas,
the weather
does change fast
things do happen severely a few times a year,
there's an awful lot of good weather, too, in
I agree,
I agree.
thought the fall was really nice.
usually a lot of the spring months are really nice, too.
After the last freeze
when it begins to be in the sixties and seventies most of the time, I
like that.
Particularly if I'm going to be outdoors
and doing, outdoor activity, hiking and things.
you probably do a lot of that with
do quite a bit of that .
Think we're going in just a couple of weeks out to Texas,
it is a little more humid out there than it is here,
I guess we'll,
the only thing you have to watch out in this part of the country is during the change type seasons is the really severe storms that occasionally
come through out here on the plains.
There's not much between us and the North Pole .
when you get one of those tornado type
systems through or severe hail or thunderstorms
do you live in a home?
it's a house we bought, about two and a half years ago now.
did you?
First house.
We've lived in ours for about six years.
We had it built, actually.
it's our first home, too.
what do you think owning a home as opposed renting somebody else's?
before we built our home we were managing some apartments that
we were living in,
that was quite an experience .
much prefer having my own home just the space more privacy.
a fairly large house?
twenty four fifty square feet.
that's pretty good size.
It's a two story.
How about yours?
It's tiny.
Is it small?
It's not much bigger.
we had an that was about as big as this house is.
only eleven hundred square feet.
have children?
Just one.
Just one.
all the rooms are small,
it ends up giving us three bedrooms, which we wanted. And, Use an extra one for an office
which is handy.
I'd rather more rooms and less space in each one I guess. Rather have lots of rooms and of space,
that ends up costing me.
how does it compare to the ones in your neighborhood? .
it's a very, very middle class neighborhood.
young couples with, usu ,
I'm sure that virtually everybody in the neighborhood, that's their first homes
and, lots of kids and stuff,
fits well, in the neighborhood.
certainly not a real upscale neighborhood,
on the other hand, it's clean and kind of suburban
little bit more than I want.
yours also
pretty much in conformance with the neighborhood
is it?
it, it does, seems about, probably average.
our neighborhood has wide variety people,
there's older people here, people that are age,
we're in our thirties.
(( )) People across the street have eight.
eight kids?
my gosh.
their home just burned down
matter of fact, last summer,
they're just rebuilding
their house is going to be really big .
I'm sure, with eight,
they're building a lot bigger.
He's, not an obstetrician, orthopedic surgeon.
since the house did burn, going,
it's quite different than it was before,
it's a lot bigger.
ours is about,
a nice home,
it's definitely not one of smaller ones,
it's not the biggest either.
new ones, tend be real tiny, especially in newer neighborhoods,
brother just built a new house.
He lives in Wichita, Kansas,
neighborhood actually fought him on it,
was, the house was going to cost less to build than any other house in the neighborhood.
that's because a lot of it himself
for example, landscaping lots of the other stuff,
his house actually ended up being nicer than lots (( )) in the neighborhood,
pretty touchy on it.
He was a little surprised.
that's interesting
you say that, because those architectural codes here
when we, put out house in, they wanted us to have,
there was one,
we have part siding
the two story part and then
on the back,
was one side where our chimney was,
just the chimney was going to be brick,
they wanted us to have more brick,
we ended up having to go halfway up
does look nicer,
we would have like to have had all brick,
of course at that point we couldn't afford it,
it's funny that you'd say that, because there were homes in here that didn't have any brick at all.
it's kind of like, they were.
Kind of depends on when they get in,
was kind of like it's they,
ours is the last street that they built on.
the houses actually on our street nicer.
they have,
it's gotten,
it's the second phase
they've kind of changed codes a little bit,
that's kind of why, I guess, they stuck us with more brick when there were
other homes that didn't have any.
my sister kind of got in the opposite end of that, because moved into a neighborhood and bought real nice stone house down in South Austin.
builder apparently plans to do, is do phase one,
they kind of give it a very upscale and very tightly controlled, codes and stuff,
they come back in,
they sell,
I, spent four years as a university professor.
spent three years,
I'm teaching in public schools and elementary school.
do you really?
That's great.
I taught in Utah,
No kidding.
Did you
W ,
teach in California?
I did.
I did,
You sound pretty young for a university professor .
I was pretty young.
I was,
I had never intended to do it
I was, given the opportunity after I'd started a management consulting firm to teach one of the business schools in the California State University system.
At any rate, the topic is fascinating because one of the things I've done for the past few years is, research the problem from the point of view of, what appears to be working best and how you can explain it theoretically.
You may be familiar with cooperative learning.
Have you ever,
tell me a little bit more about it because I don't think we did that in Utah.
the cooperative learning is a technique that was tried initially to integrate the public schools.
it involves, basically, is the use of peer groups
the, teacher becomes sort of a
I guess they're called.
there are, some fairly sophisticated approaches that are used in the high schools with point systems and things like that so that people, gain a competence with respect to the material.
I think that the combination of, technology and techniques like that together with marketplace forces will bring about a revolution in the way we learn.
I think there is a direct threat to vested interest in the public school system, that will stand in the way of that progress being a little faster.
school systems are, in too many states, dominated by administrators
both teachers and parents, complain about cost and ineffectiveness that results.
my feeling is that, problem significant.
There are plenty of good people, available to, offer people educational experience,
that we just have to and reorganize the resources to do it
I think certain techniques and technologies will influence all of that as well as research, of the sort that people like me do looking at theories of behavior and how they can be used to improve performance, particularly, accelerate pace of learning.
my feeling is that, those kinds of things will solve the problem eventually.
I don't know what form it will ultimately take.
I think that the future is pretty bright because people recognize that we're paying an enormous price for, inferior quality when the people involved really aren't inferior,
it must be the way we're managing the process that,
I see what year saying,
I totally agree.
don't, I don't think a matter talented people to do it, quote, unquote students and as teachers,
clearly what's happened in this country is the school system's been asked to assume a great many responsibilities
in the past thirty years
that weren't existent,
you must see kids with real significant problems, in some cases.
course, I always see the,
I don't know is it, in the public school system in Iowa City?
deteriorated a lot.
Do the people say,
are they pretty happy with it,
haven't taught in Iowa,
I've taught in Utah,
people there were saying that the way that the schools were going, a lot of people were going away and going to private schools, or else going to home, where they taught their kids at home.
Or, anything but the public schools and the ones that did have, the kids,
Even in Utah.
Utah's a place where you wouldn't think that problem would be very severe.
maybe it was the area I was in,
a lot of schools had a lot of transient, families and a lot of families who were on the poorer side
saw a fair number of troubled kids.
like you said, how are doing more things for the kids, they thought, than they were thirty years ago.
year I left, they were considering providing hot lunch for or
hot breakfast for the kids.
As well as hot lunch
as far as I'm concerned it's probably apt that your call's at this time because we just got through watching, REASONABLE DOUBTS.
Which had a, capital case in it.
personally have,
my own feelings about, capital punishment is I think it should be mandatory upon a third conviction felony.
I do, too.
Mandatory, summary execution, on the steps, that day.
I think, in that same,
I think if it's a convicted, felon on parole
and he goes out commits another crime or kills somebody, I feel the same way,
that person beyond, rehabilitation
he should be taken out .
also firmly believe that no one is beyond reclamation.
I do know that usually die before that point.
They just get too old.
as far as capital punishment, it's own merits, I have the trouble with the way it's applied.
I think it should be applied, on a little bit more fair manner.
said this very often
I believe it to be very true axiom,
I would white, rich and guilty than black and innocent.
Because black and you kill a white guy, you're going to fry.
Kill you.
They will kill you.
if you're black and you kill a black guy, it's, two hundred hours of community service.
too much those cases.
it's a social
disease that we have called one upsmanship,
We're the majority,
we can do whatever the hell we want to do.
That's right.
you're the minority
you're stuck with it.
we had this in the Vietnam war,
we had ,
population of blacks among military people in Vietnam was about eighty percent.
the population of blacks in the military was about twenty two percent.
The handwriting's on the wall there, isn't it?
it sure is.
that's another issue altogether.
As far as capital punishment, I think that, ten years on death row is cruel and unusual punishment.
I think the guy should have ninety days
if he can't produce evidence
not argument, but evidence,
the only thing understand, I guess don't understand our judicial system, as it is right now
somebody has been convicted and has been sentenced to be put to death, how is it that they can appeal and appeal and appeal and get stays of
how, is
goes back to when, America was colony of England.
In England, you went to court, you were assumed guilty until proven innocent and once they found you guilty, judge said, he's guilty, kill him.
were some people had a problem with that.
Because they found out later on that, a guy will lie rather than get killed.
he'll say, that guy did it, not me.
he'll have somebody lie for him.
people lie,
it's a
strange thing,
they do that,
to prevent that kind of misuse of power, they wrote into the Constitution a protection
against judicial mishap.
the judicial mishap in this event would be, you got the wrong guy.
Look at that guy, at E Systems.
of a robbery that he could not physically have been able to commit.
He was too far away when it happened.
He had witnesses dope dealers, they weren't drug fiends, they were employees of establishment that had a very high level of security sense, too. And these were really responsible people.
they convicted this guy because somebody says, he looks like the right guy.
They all look the same to me,
Big lips, flat nose, that was him.
What do you think about, convicted,
this is an unusual topic.
What do you think about it?
it took eight times to find you
I told my husband,
what should I say
he reminded me,
family, what they usually do, on his dad's side, his mom or, the aunts will send out little postcards, two or three weeks before reminding everyone where to meet and, just, to bring anything,
they just notify everyone by mail,
they just meet at, a park or something to have short, a small, dinner type thing.
that sounds great, Ellen.
How far away do they come from?
in Portland
they come as far as, Seattle
sometimes we've gone
living in Utah at the time.
his dad's family is all around the area
his mom's side of the family, they all, have their family reunions in southern Utah
people would come from Seattle to there let's see, Nevada and in that area, Washington and Nevada to southern Utah
to be in charge of notifying everybody.
that makes sense.
Nobody's out of a lot of trouble more than once.
the people who are down there, they'll assign one person in the Utah area, one person in the Washington area
that person can call, beforehand and just make sure everyone knows, too.
they just sort of do a little program or, something like that so
that everyone's sort of involved.
That's interesting.
You sound like you've had a lot of experience with this, then.
that's my husband's side and my family,
we all live in southern California
we just have to either or,
give a formal invite
we're all there
Southern California's still pretty large.
L A, Orange County area.
I see.
(( )) .
mostly not farther than an hour away.
my experience, has been limited pretty much lately to my mother's side of the family.
years ago there was a big dispute on my dad's side
they haven't had a reunion since then.
They just show up at funerals and weddings.
It was pretty serious and lot of yelling
and all that,
my mother's side we had first real reunion that I've ever gone to last summer
they had people come in from out of town
they took some rooms down at a Holiday Inn
they had some activity,
they had a nice dinner planned and all of that stuff
people got up and talked about various parts of the family tree
a lot of that sort of thing.
Since it was the first one that we'd had once.
Now next time we have one,
we'll have to think of something more creative to do.
that's interesting because one thing that always brings to my, husband's mother's side together is, they talk about the genealogy of the family tree every time
inevitably everyone is just very interested
they always have, two or three new ones to add to the list, someone's been born or
someone passed away or, something like that
everyone has to update their little
books or whatever.
have you, do you have an interest in genealogy?
I do, but not much compared to my
Not a
mother in law.
I suspect we'll do quite a bit more genealogy
suspect we will do more of it.
I found of the relatives I didn't even know their names, some of the
two or three generations back and some of the aunts and uncles
there's a lot of things there you have to stop,
their really kind of fascinating.
I found out my grandmother was one of a twin.
we don't even know where the twin,
we have virtually background her
on the twin.
Is it grandma's own sibling
My grandmother's, sister who would be somewhere West Virginia.
I'm sure she's, dead now, because my grandmother died twenty years ago.
I see.
quite a bit, I'm probably a lot older than you are.
maybe, they just moved away and then sort of lost contact.
I don't know.
what type of magazines do you have?
We take several at home.
take, SKIING MAGAZINE,
I take, DISCOVER magazine, and also, C D AND STEREO REVIEW
and NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC, I think
(( )) .
and BOYS LIFE .
That's a good one, I like to get .
I take it that you like to ski.
receive a lot of information on skiing through the SKI MAGAZINE?
I presume that I do.
I suppose that puts me on some mailing lists and so forth, because I do get things
from ski associations and things, the year.
do you receive discounts and things like that,
do you think
not so much that, I, more likely to see those at a ski show or something,
I just enjoy reading about the resorts and where you can go and,
and new equipment that's come out and so forth.
Some fashions
are always in there too.
would this vacation you're taking,
did you receive information from your skiing magazine?
Probably not.
we already knew we wanted to take one,
we just started looking around.
I may have referred to a couple of them,
we went to the ski show and looked at all of the
resort information, picked up a lot of brochures
and just decided to go to Crested Butte.
We haven't been there before.
that sounds nice.
Kind of away from the crowd
is why we chose that one.
supposedly low lift lines.
I haven't skied Utah yet,
I want to.
you need to come out .
I'd like to go to Sundance and Park City
and some of those.
I understand Deer Valley is nice, too.
Deer Valley,
they are,
it's wonderful snow .
how about you,
magazines do you have at home?
I am currently taking DECORATIVE WOODWORKING, and, COUNTRY LIVING,
let's see, we do have NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC,
we have some church magazines,
I really enjoy the DECORATIVE WOODWORKING.
I'm heavy into woodworking and tole painting and things like that,
the DECORATIVE WOODWORKING has just been a great, great help.
Does it have, articles on how to do things
as well as equipment that you can buy and so forth?
the ads on the equipment,
the whole magazine is just filled with, pictures and projects that you can make yourself,
it has all of the patterns and instructions that you would need to make a wood project, then how to paint it with the tole paintings,
it's really a fun one.
I like that.
that's good.
It's good to get use out of one.
huh .
I'm not sure that, in the case of NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC,
I read it,
they just sort of gather dust for a
long period of time,
eventually there'll be a school project or something where my son will need to refer back through forty eight back issues to find
huh .
France or something or whatever it is
he's looking for.
noticed that, too,
they have been nice to have around.
Every once in a while they come in handy .
I used to take SMITHSONIAN
I liked that magazine
just found myself not ever getting around to reading it.
You get so many coming in,
by the time the next round comes in I'm still not through reading the first round.
SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN comes to our house, too, I forgot,
mostly my son's,
I do read it, too.
that sounds like.
he takes GAMES MAGAZINE
GAME MAGAZINE, which has puzzles and things
that he likes to solve, crosswords and various logic puzzles and things like that
he likes to try that,
He get to be a lot of paper though,
after a while
huh .
if you don't keep them weeded out, they almost take over.
I found that they've been fun for my little girls,
they're five and four years old,
they like to go through
they're just kind of getting started now.
huh. They like to cut the pictures out and paste them on,
we've found good use for those.
Mine is a senior in high school,
kind of at the end of that trail.
You're just
sort of beginning
to think about first grade.
it's fun.
I do have a boy in junior high, too,
you got a little bit of a gap there between,
we're kind of running the gamut .
Okay ,
do you do artistic painting?
I do tole painting.
you do?
I really love the tole painting.
I haven't done any of the oil or watercolor.
I would like to learn that someday,
right now my passion is tole painting .
Do you do a lot of it?
took one class about, I guess three or four years ago
I've done a little,
it takes a lot of time .
It does,
it is real time consuming
you sell your projects?
mostly I have just given them away as gifts.
I've done, perpetual calendars and cookie jar lids and, on and on, just things like that,
I would eventually like to make enough to sell and quit my job
Where do you work at?
I just work at Stop and Shop out there Ogden
do you ever send any of your stuff to the boutique?
I've wanted to do that, but mass produced enough to do that.
I have five children of my own,
That keeps you busy.
keep me busy
tole painting is just something I do in my spare time
Have you tried any of the,
do you cut out your own projects?
I have my own saws
I really enjoy doing that.
Do you, ever spray your projects with base coat first
do you brush it on?
I brush it on,
I haven't tried spray varnish.
I use just a wood sealer.
I just bought a spray gun, one of those high volume, low pressure spray guns.
I do a lot of woodworking
Do you?
that's what I bought it for.
I haven't used it yet.
probably give you a smoother finish, wouldn't it?
what type of woodworking do you do?
fine furniture.
do you?
That's why I the sprayer
is to finish my projects.
That's my part of my woodworking.
I get so sick of making ,
it's hard to finish it,
spraying does put on a nicer finish.
that is interesting.
what kind of equipment do you have?
For woodworking?
let me see,
table saw, scroll saw, band saw, lathe, routers,
ts about it.
it sounds like you're really into it.
That is nice.
it is.
just have a scroll saw and a jig saw
I am really anxious to get a band saw and a router .
the band saw is really nice.
I have an Inca.
I don't know if you've ever heard of those.
it's nice to have the right equipment.
it easier, doesn't it?
have you sold any of your furniture
mostly I do like you do, give it away as gifts.
Making my own furniture.
that's interesting.
take classes to learn how to do that?
just in junior high
I just kept on through high school and then got my own equipment, kept up with that.
yours is mostly just a hobby, too, then.
that is interesting.
love to go take a class in woodworking and learn how to.
I don't know if I necessarily want to do furniture,
mostly, just
do more,
the shelves and,
the woodworking.
For your
tole painting.
Yeah .
it's fun .
, I guess I'll let you go now.
they come on,
we're supposed to talk until they come on and
they do?
tell us .
this is my first one.
You're probably a veteran
at this.
been really fun.
I've enjoyed this.
like I say, I've made a couple of calls to Texas, and
just talked to all different kinds of people
I think you'll enjoy doing it.
It's fun.
Sounds fun.
Where do you buy your tole painting paints at around here?
there's a shop in Roy that I really love.
it's there by the, Copper Mill restaurant, used to be the Hayloft.
I am not famil ,
we live in (( Roy ))
, we haven ,
is it on nineteen hundred?
let's see,
I'm trying to think of the name.
I know where fifty six hundred south is.
I don't right off.
Is that Ben Franklin (( then )) ?
Ben Franklin,
you want to start?
I might as well.
one of the things I'm very concerned about the air pollution, is this, the ozone layer, issue.
I used to own a heating and air conditioning business and handled lots of
that, rather bothers me that, I was effect, contributing to the delinquency of environment, so to speak.
that's stuff we never even thought about three years ago.
one of the reasons they fixed up the freons eleven, twelve and thirteen, in that area was because they were inexpensive,
they could be made, inexpensive and lots of it,
in that, its properties were great, with, the machinery, didn't have to have lots of expensive machinery to, get your heating and cooling cycles to work.
Have they stopped that practice now?
course there's tremendous number of both commercial and residential, utilizing freon twelve,
of course, the new cars, I guess starting with ninety three will not have freon twelve in their systems.
there's, the ton of after market machines, and et cetera, et cetera.
that's got me very, highly concerned that, that's going to be quite a while before we can,
undo this.
Now, that could spawn several good industries and help,
pull us out of this recession,
you got to have people that can a salary to pay for this conversion.
I see us in catch twenty two banks or industry and the government go together come up with a way to, have us as a part of the unemployed society be able to be gainfully employed again converting all this freon twelve stuff into the new nonpolluting, compound.
as I say, tremen ,
how many, families own a refrigerator,
do, you know, that number, how many freezer separate from
and how many people, especially here in Texas, own cars and trucks with air conditioning.
Yeah ,
are people a thriving business, that do nothing but heating and air conditioning automobiles and trucks,
the only reason I didn't, get into that more, when I my little business, was because, most of your, air conditioning on vehicles tend to be greasy and dirty to the N th degree
that's why I
that's a type deal too, is the excessive, petroleum products in your engine bay and so forth, and the dirt and grit and those two mixed together water really a mess.
I hate to see a car going down the street, or even a truck or bus for that matter, that's putting out a lot of dark
I know there's a lot of pollutants we can't even see coming out of
particular bothers me.
most of the time when you see with the diesel
are carbon particles, and carbon dioxide and water vapor,
is burned it's it,
diesel fuel is burned diesel engine
it's burned so completely, that you don't have any, nitrous oxides, or oxides of nitrogen, to, form
the very combustion process of the diesel engine, because diesel oil not very volatile.
where gasoline, if you leave a little pail of gasoline out before long it's gone.
Diesel is going to be around, because it doesn't evaporate easily,
it's got,
it's latent heat is high,
it's slow burning normal pressures.
That's why your diesel engines have such high compression ratios
I see.
air is heated, by virtue of the compression process to one to nineteen or nineteen to one
if the car sucks in, fifty degrees,
how do you feel about trial by jury?
I feel very uncomfortable with trials by juries recently.
In what way?
In that it seems to me that they are swayed more by emotion than, by evidence that's presented.
I have, very little regard for the law ,
presently practiced.
you feel they are swayed more toward, are you talking about with criminal or civil suits?
I was thinking primarily criminal cases.
do you think that, stereotypical bleeding heart juries
where they feel sorry.
That's a concern of mine.
I would feel more comfortable in many cases I think with judges. doing the sentencing.
that really bothers me about that is I think that a judge can be
like the idea of juries of your peers
in that you get than one person decision.
second of all, you get a wide variety of background
my question I guess are they really your peers?
agree with that.
That's definitely a problem.
too often I think they are not
selecting a jury and you are doing it partially not entirely on the basis of which color representation you have
is a matter of concern to me too.
I think that, in such cases, they are not really looking for unbiased people, but rather for biased.
now I happen to know several judges
there is one that I would feel uncomfortable but has doing sentencing without the jury .
I would feel a little bit uneasy about
the other two I feel, would give either the plaintiff or for the defendant the the full benefit of the law.
I guess that's what I am concerned with.
I, guess definitely agree with you,
what I don't like about,
in that I think it becomes a lot less,
same crime gets unequal sentences.
This is very true.
think there is more of an ability selecting that would most of the time come up with versus whether he is guilty
or innocent
there would be a large variation trying to gage severity of the crime and an appropriate punishment and have measure stick across the board.
you do see such uneven sentencing
evidence of it in the newspapers and such,
where, it would appear the crimes were very similar
one individual got twenty five years
the other one was sentenced to life.
Of course a lot of that's also the ability the defendant to, get a good lawyer.
Isn't that the truth ?
There are times when is it,
goodness, my mind has gone blank it's, Othello.
You know where he says kill all the lawyers .
Every now and then one is tempted to see
I agree .
a long time to understand that, lawyers are concerned with the law and not with justice
huh .
novices tend to think that, attorneys care about justice.
agree with it
They will admit to you that they have the benefit of being able of, themselves to believe their clients that are guilty
it's more of the game plan of how do they convince the judge or jury through argument.
That the ,
they are very effective too.
I have been involved, just in a case where I know the person is guilty
his attorneys gotten him off.
the city has dropped their charges against him because attorney has presented enough evidence of doubt to convince the judge.
I don't know .
this is a little bit of the subject,
thing that I really dislike, also new I have heard that there are federal sentences,
in this modern day and age, it seems like, we have more and more leisure time because, we have so many and whatnot.
We don't even have to cook dinner anymore.
I've heard, I've heard that a lot of families really don't spend a great deal of time together.
maybe on the average get, something like thirty seconds of quality time with the parents.
That's what I've heard too.
It seems bizarre to me.
I don't quite understand it, although I think probably worst thing that's happening today, is television.
Not so much because, it's bad per se, although there is some pretty crappy programming
poorer lifestyles illustrated but simply because it dominates so much discussionary time.
It's so darned easy to turn the thing on.
I know it.
tell myself sometimes, just sit down after work,
I refuse to have one in the house.
good for you.
Good for you.
about that
I've thought about it myself
I though about it a lot
I still haven't done it yet.
that's good.
I'll tell you.
Television sure makes child rearing easy on you.
the kids can be a real pest,
turning the T V on is almost like magic,
it's like sticking, an electrode into their pleasure center
you don't have to worry about them.
That's true
I've noticed that.
I don't think it's too good.
I don't think so either.
I don't know,
I take advantage,
I don't have a great deal of time to spend with the kids,
I take advantage of, dinner time.
We always eat together
whenever you're with your kids, you want to interact with them rather than just ignore them.
Do you keep your kids, active in sports or anything
I guess our big outlet is music.
our thirteen year old son plays violin
nine year old daughter plays cello
when our son started playing violin, I took up violin
when our daughter started playing cello, I took up cello.
there's interactive time in, practicing. Although neither kid likes to practice.
I guess that's not a big surprise.
Not for kids .
with infants most of your time is sort of spent taking care of them rather than interacting with them.
try and read to them
I take them to the park and stuff
reading is so good.
took great pleasure in reading to my kids when they were little
I still try to read to them, although our son is not liking that anymore.
they get to that stage.
I read,
there's this DOCTOR SEUSS sleep book.
Have you ever seen that yet?
Sleep book,
it's called a sleep book
you ought to get it.
I tell you I read that book to my kids so many times I almost have the thing memorized.
We've got quite a few of DOCTOR SEUSS' books.
his sleep book is my favorite.
do it
they enjoy reading.
I've, I never read a lot growing up
I never read until a few years ago
I just started picking up books
I've found that, it's really important to me to get to read.
To, I like to get away in a book,
I've put a lot more emphasis on that, on my kids
to try and,
much time do you think you spend with your kids on the average per each day?
I probably spend an hour or two.
that's great.
My wife works at night,
she does, Tupperware,
she's gone a lot at nights
I see.
I spend a lot of time with them .
old are your kids again?
They're two and one.
Two and one.
you have your hands full with them,
that's for sure .
Yeah .
(( I )) , try to stay away from cars as much as possible in terms of
that is really a sore spot with me.
think perhaps the automotive industry is improving
ten years ago, reliability of automobiles, at least U S automobiles was pretty dismal
not only that, but the, repair capability of, service departments and dealerships was equally dismal
it seemed that the only way I could reliably take care of my car was to repair it myself which is not my cup of tea.
do you have a car?
Do you have a car?
at that time, I had a Volkswagen Rabbit
a real lemon.
subsequently I got a, Buick Century
it wasn't as bad.
last year I bought a Honda Accord
I take it in once every seventy five hundred miles for its periodic maintenance
that is it.
it's wonderful.
We used to have a Honda Accord
they're good.
They're really good cars.
Every time I get taken to an auto repair place, every time I go, I get taken.
Woman goes in
they go all right, we got a sucker.
Let's see how much money we can get out of her, .
That's what happens every time.
do you have?
I have a Pontiac Six Thousand.
All the more reason to, have Honda.
our Honda just got old and just wore out.
It was, let's see, eleven years old
it out of it
you bought a Pontiac?
this just happened a couple of weeks ago.
He's my ex husband
just a few months ago when he was my husband, his father gave us this car
everything is wrong with it.
the power steering fluid leaks, the oil leaks, the brake fluid leaks,
Now thi ,
old is the car?
eighty seven.
he just doesn't take care of things
I was awarded the car
There is a man in my church that is a mechanic
I can trust him.
he is trying to get, things fixed on it.
it's just, leak, leak, leak everywhere.
I hate to go into repair place because they'll tell me something is wrong with it and it's not, and charge me twice as much.
The last time I took it into a repair shop,
the man told me I needed a master cylinder.
I said okay.
he charged me a hundred and thirty something dollars
about a month later, a man was looking at my car
he asked me,
but just a friend
I was telling him that I just a new master cylinder put on
he looked at
he said that's not a new master cylinder
I didn't even know what one was.
he showed it to me
it was old, rusty, just awful.
It was no more new than nothing.
apparently it was the same one that was on there.
more than likely.
probably filled brake fluid up
that was it.
That was it, probably.
It was ve ,
I was so irritated.
that's happened to me more than once or twice. just about every time I've went in somewhere.
what's the solution to that? I guess find a reputable service,
you can hardly find one,
The guy that's doing most of car now, goes to my church
that's the only reason, I go to him
because I know him
I know he will tell me the truth.
he doesn't even charge me doing it
he's not going to, take me.
I just pay for the parts
he does it so.
that's wonderful.
You're lucky.
I am,
I don't know.
I don't know what the solution to that is because the place where you buy your car, they're usually the worst one of all.
We took our Honda to the Honda dealership
they ended up telling us we needed a brand new engine for our car.
idiots as we were, neither one of us knew much about cars,
just had to have one
we bought one.
We didn't no more need no new engine,
give me break,
not good
I think, I'm fairly pleased with the benefits that we have working for a large corporation.
for me, there's absolutely no question what's the most important benefit
I think it's health care.
It's what,
I think everybody would say that.
if you try to get it outside of your corporation, you're going to pay an arm and a leg.
most important protection you can have after you,
sometimes I think it's more important than salary.
do you also get dental?
I don't know if I would rank that second
since I have three boys, can turn out to be important.
I know.
given year, can really kill you.
my husband is with, Northwest Airlines
he gets, the full health and dental
we have four children
what you pay just to have teeth cleaned is outrageous.
I don't know how people that don't have it can afford it.
maybe they don't .
if the (( cleaning )) doesn't get you, the orthodony will.
That's right .
That's right .
I guess that would be up there.
I'm not sure that retirement
pretax savings was another thing that I think is a
a great, a great benefit (( )) .
think it's really something that government ought to encourage more because, there are all these complaints about how we're not a saving country
and where the average savings rate is something like four percent in this country and fifteen percent in, Germany and Japan. (( )) ,
it's a lot easier save it when you don't get your hands on it first .
economy to scale and everything that a large corporation has, you can, offer some incentive
if the government goes along by not taxing it when you put it aside
you can really build up, the savings you wouldn't otherwise do
(( )) ,
lesser, benefits perhaps for you but the women corporation.
For example,
do they have father leaves or anything like that?
don't think so yet.
They may have, just plain parental leave, which either one can take.
maternity leave is on the order of six weeks which I think is too short.
I do too.
I really think that we need to get into the mold where we talk about years rather than months or weeks.
it's just a crying shame,
for a mother to have to go back to work at six weeks.
She isn't recovered .
(( There )) ,
the infant needs her desperately,
at that point and time.
There ought to be, some compromise the person would be guaranteed a, career type position but not necessarily a continuation of exactly the same position
in exchange for a longer period of time.
I agree.
so important to families then
yet anybody whose gotten far enough to get a good salary is really reluctant to give that up.
Especially in this day and age.
You don't want to start over again anywhere.
you're right.
I think you've put your finger on the one benefit would most like to see, changed . the, parental leave.
I think they've come a long way.
at least some companies. Some of them, my girlfriend, in particular, that works for rental car agency
as manager they have a very, very poor leave policy
I just don't know women do it.
Particularly, single parents who don't have the support at the other end.
Right .
They do it by shortchanging their kids.
There's no other way.
That's right.
That's exactly right.
unless they're part of some extended family which is unlikely.
(( )) people moving as much .
a terrible choice,
you shouldn't have to make it.
you're right.
One of the benefits we get, of course, is travel .
would I like to have that.
It's wonderful .
The only trouble is that you can afford to go anywhere
you can't afford to stay once you get there .
listen I have friends in a lot of different cities.
If you just fly me there,
I'll take care of that .
That's right.
You have to have an awful lot of fun
getting there, to be half the fun.
I guess the,
you say you have some strong feelings about, the issue?
I do as far as immigration as a whole goes.
I think that, we simply must start accepting everybody in the world.
there just is not going to be room for all of us.
We don't have jobs now.
think, I think when we come to a time of recession that it's particularly important that we shut our doors at that time.
I hope you're one of the employed right now.
I am one of the unemployed right now.
I was a systems analysis and programmer for an oil company
I applied for one set of jobs with a company here in Dallas that they had two hundred openings
they had two thousand applications.
I know that there are a lot of foreigners, here, doing my line of work.
of course, I'm not perfectly happy about not having a job.
how do you feel?
I'm a little bit ambivalent.
immigration policy is like any other political problem is that people are not willing to discuss it, terms of what, really is driving it.
They're not willing to tell the truth. The same way with, issues of, race and things like that .
right now, I believe there are two policies the government uses to modulate immigration. Three actually.
One is at the high end,
they always want to be able to, do some brain draining.
They always like to be able to attract the, Einsteins or the Professor Chou
Right .
They'd like to be able to get the top people in any field
they can almost always find room for someone like that.
At the bottom end, they,
are always willing to, let in cheap labor if it lowers the cost of doing business in some particular area and has strong support from the,
powerful people in that area.
Those are two things that I think are going on. Although don't think the politicians would tell you that.
I think you're right in both cases.
third thing is, the political aspect of, letting steam come out from under the lid in Mexico .
They cannot close off the Mexican border. Not because it's physically impossible but because the explosion that would take place in Mexico would be,
would spill over to this country
they keep allowing, the pressure cooker to let off steam.
I think probably it's pretty important right there.
How do you feel about Haitian immigration?
that's one of the few things I guess I found myself in agreement with Pat Buchanan .
I think they're a very difficult group to integrate into, society.
They're very difficult, group to find jobs places for.
I don't deny that we may have been involved in causing the problem they're pretty miserable where they are.
I'm not to sympathetic about, letting large numbers of Haitians in.
I feel that if we accepted these people that we would eventually have almost the total population here.
it would have nothing to do with political situations.
It would have to do with poverty.
in a million at a time, big a bulge in the population. But
my gosh.
and economically.
to southern Florida?
I know about it.
now with Haitians the way it was with Cubans, twenty years ago.
the two of them together.
we can,
it's just as well
it's hardly America anymore.
On the other hand, the ironic thing about this is that there's nobody more full of the entrepreneurial American spirit than our first generation immigrant .
a lot to be said for having a steady stream of people who know how it is someplace else coming in.
there's some differences in the immigrants,
we're getting now.
I particularly have a problem with the illegal immigration.
I think,
probably say is true about the legals.
the majority of the illegal immigration we're getting now, they do not come here to blend into America.
don't bother to learn our language
first of all,
We send a lot of money to Mexico.
Why don't you start?
I don't know.
refinished a couple of old, dressers that were handed down.
tongue and groove, construction.
pretty successful with that.
Things you already owned or things that you've picked up just to do that?
Are they things you already owned or you pick them up just to do that refinishing?
I've done some other things too.
I've done both .
my wife has picked up a couple of things saying, if we could refinish that, that would be a beautiful piece of furniture
we've done it a couple of times.
I guess that
we've been fairly successful with those.
a kind of low risk sort of project, isn't it I guess.
That's a good way to get started.
I have really nice desk. A nicer desk than I could afford. Which I got because my sister who worked in a hospital,
huh .
liberated it after a fire
we stripped it all the way down and refinished it
it turned out to be
huh .
Maple top I think
huh .
something of that sort.
put together up rolltop desk from scratch.
a kit.
I'm jealous.
Still had to cut it and everything,
it was fun.
Yeah .
things, that might be too crude to be called woodworking.
I've built my own deck and,
things like that.
done the same. like the trim around the house
the baseboards and things like that.
I definitely have begun to accumulate tools too.
I picked up a bunch of Craftsman tools from the forties that my wife's father owned when he was alive
I do have a band saw and a router and, things like that out in the garage.
I can't say I use them very often .
(( Yeah ))
, I'm looking at trying to get a router right now.
They're handy, they
(( )) .
they come in handy at the most unusual times.
Putting doors in is the time when I'm,
I bought myself a, template for making mortices and doors
that's a whole lot easier than doing it with a chisel .
I'll bet.
used them for rabbeting because, rabbeting is a little bit uncertain .
I got one for Christmas a few years ago and used it quite a bit for the first eight months I had it
now I use it twice a year maybe .
used it a lot for making drawers.
I don't
The big,
your opinion of a good router is like?
I guess it,
he was tell me like the ones that you dial in aren't all that great.
They've plastic parts and stuff.
The ones that what?
That you dial in on the side.
at one closely.
little use that I've gotten from my router, I would spend my money on the bits .
I have medium quality Craftsman router
How strong is it?
It's strong enough for any job where you don't try to take more than say three eighths of an inch at a time.
the problem is that the, as with
time you buy
Don't they,
tool with
a, a, as a, as a package
the bits that they give you are low end.
good set of bits is probably going to run you a hundred dollars
if you're going to use for a lifetime I suppose it's worth it.
I imagine if I go and sharpen them myself, they won't last .
I've never had the bits sharpened .
That's a thing to consider is to,
really get hot don't they?
dull after awhile.
Especially, I did some cabinets in, ash and oak
wears a bit down.
We remodeled and saved a bunch of really nice ash cabinets,
which had been in the original,
remodeling of our kitchen.
I saved them and built an oven cabinet out of one and another cabinet out of another by using the faces and so forth .
routing hardwood will, take the edge off a cheap bit pretty fast .
I've cut some one by eight oak before .
Boy was that fun.
Big solid pieces of oak are just
you take the blade to the
to get sharpened, right .
that was, circular saw.
my gosh.
Is this going to be fun ?
Yeah .
I've used mine on treated wood
now all my blades need sharpening.
Because, treated wood will also chew them up.
Treated wood can really make you sick too.
a budget about two years, ago,
we have a computer, here at the house,
I made a Lotus spreadsheet and went through the year using all of checkbook to figure out what we spent each time and whether we were over or under for each month
basically since then what I've done keep track of it through the checkbook
that based on then how much I'm spending each half of the month and then trying to also spe ,
because our house payment is once a month,
that's biggest, expense
I take half of that amount out of my checkbook paycheck,
even thought it's really still there,
so that I can keep, good balance,
A running total.
a running total, through the month,
What do you all do?
taken how much we have, write down how much we have coming in each month
at the beginning of the year we sat down and determined how much we could spend.
We different accounts
we've set a budget for each, household expenses, or food, and clothing and entertainment and then own fun money and just stuff like that
we write down time we spend something, we write down in a book
at the end of the month we tally it up to see how close we,
try to stay within a certain budget,
hard to keep track of it
does it work out pretty well?
dedication to do it,
works out real well,
you're staying within your budget and
everything is working pretty good.
we have that,
within it then we have, a budget for, we call our slush fund or something
some , an unexpected comes up, then feel it so strapped.
You don't have to go out and borrow it somewhere and do that.
charge anything that we can't pay off by the end of the month.
That's a good choice,
to, do that this year.
We've budgeted the money that on a (( CODA )) account with T I and then money we were also buying stock with for that year,
we've taken that this year,
You've got paper under your table.
and said we're going to pay off all of our credit cards
we have, another loan with the bank,
we hope by the end of this year,
To be out of that.
that by doing that we'll be free,
and clear.
the only thing we have, it to pay off automobile loan and our house payment,
that's the only thing we ever,
That's good to be in that kind of shape.
We try to stay out of debt .
What are you all trying to do long term.
it's long term.
We just,
retirement plan and then to (( CODA )) and stuff like that, that's all we,
we just have our life insurance for right now.
we don't have any long term, in stocks, or anything like that right now,
mostly what we've done the, (( CODA )) account with T I where put in so much a month,
match it.
that's what we're doing.
worked out pretty good
I used to work for T I
I have,
when I retired from there, or left, I took the money had in mine and put it in an I R A
existing I R A
some money in an I R A that we're also trying to figure,
in C D's right now,
we're also looking at it in possibly getting a mutual fund.
when ever we get enough saved we stick it in a C D for a while
we need it we wait until expired
The other thing that we've done, was really nice to see, we had one of the financial companies,
company came out
their agent did a long term analysis based on salary and, our, goals were on a long term budget in terms of retirement, kids college, paying off the house, buying a different house,
special thing, buying land and building our own house
they did an analysis for us based on what we were putting in and the time frame that we wanted to look at,
and then gave us on whether or not we were going to achieve those goals,
or not,
not, and what we needed to do so that we could achieve them and the money we could put in at what time.
That sounds interesting,
we've never done any ,
we have,
life insurance guy has come out,
he's how much something were to happen.
the other financial thing I guess that we've done is with our life insurance is, since I'm at home now figuring out, what we would need if something happened to my husband, or what he would need if something happened to me,
that's big thing to think about.
if, I would sell the,
if, something would happen to him, I wouldn't stay in Texas,
I would, sell the house and move back home, to my home town,
I wouldn't stay here in Texas,
I don't know what he would do.
I guess that's most of my, financial plans right now.
mine too.
there anything you'd like to add?
that's about all for mine.
it's been nice talking to you.
Nice talking to you too.
Bye, bye .
Bye, bye.
How do you usually keep up with current events?
Normally I listen to C N N or HEADLINE NEWS about an, hour a day,
I supplement that with, radio news from my car radio and from a news magazine once a week,
Do you,
and a newspaper if I have time.
I don't usually have time to read the newspaper everyday,
I try to listen to the radio in the morning try to catch one of the morning talk shows,
I usually end up flipping through C N N and HEADLINE NEWS during the evening.
I always try to read the Sunday paper just because it usually gives a summary of week's hot events.
catch that, if nothing else.
That's true,
how do you rate the,
are you pleased with the news coverage that you're receiving?
local news I think we do real well where it's,
we live in a kind of small town,
I think we get excellent local coverage, (( )) ,
I like the national news that we see,
watch N B C
I think they do a real good job.
real pleased with the quality of the news we get,
how about you?
On the whole, I'm pleased when I have an opportunity to hear just the facts.
I would much prefer that they keep their analysis to themselves. since I don't necessarily agree with it or it tends to be extraordinarily trite.
I think I'm fed up with trite.
There seems to be more and more of it,
I understand the void that, comes naturally with both radio presentations and television presentations
a ,
as expensive as they are to produce, they certainly don't want any dead airspace.
I think there's enough news out there that they could pass on more factual information to us,
like you said, save the commentaries because I'm going to listen to news and draw my own opinions.
I don't really need their help to do that.
we're certainly in agreement there.
I don't think radio is as bad to do that as T V is.
Radio seems to have a full platter or full plate of different things that they need to get done.
a little more efficient,
or have more to do over that same time frame.
I don't know which that answer is.
I think greatest complaint about news programs is programs like SIXTY MINUTES.
Do you watch that?
I used to,
I don't anymore, maybe once or twice a year.
I used to watch SIXTY MINUTES until they did two programs, (( )) , that I knew both the people and the
I knew that they had presented an extremely slanted viewpoint,
that was, in my estimate, nowhere near truth but was much better for ratings.
it, ever since that time I just don't watch.
I guess we have same reaction whether we came about it from the same place or not.
I had heard a couple of people, that I had talked to about certain programs say that, they had read other things besides what SIXTY MINUTES presented and that they didn't present it nearly the same way as the, news articles or whatever already been familiar with.
I started questioning just bias they really were,
old you are,
it seems to me like the last, newscaster that presented news in just the nice simple factual way that I wanted to hear was Walter Cronkite.
know if you're familiar with him or not.
not really,
in the last few years just his kind of informal segments I've seen
I never got to see his actual nightly news.
I liked,
did grow up with David Brinkley.
Brinkley was sort of trying to be in the mold,
of Cronkite
he did pretty good job.
THE HUNTLEY, BRINKLEY REPORT was quite excellent,
over the years.
we used to watch, him and I guess, John Chancellor.
I always liked David Brinkley
used to enjoy John Chancellor's style of reporting,
on the nightly news, he goes into his commentary
that's where I into the problem him.
I frequently disagree with his commentaries,
once they've reported the facts, all they can offer is an opinion anymore.
What did you think of the news coverage of the war?
I almost felt like it was too much.
Indeed, I found myself restricting my viewing to a couple of hours a day, one in the morning and one in the evening.
spent a number of years in the service as an intelligence analyst,
I don't need their fill ins, .
Did that help you understand a lot what was going on prior experience with the military did,
think it helps me everyday in trying to review the state that the world is in and try to guess where we're going.
I wondered if it would help you sometimes fill in the gaps or recognize discrepancies that might not pick up on.
think, my background is probably what absolutely turned me off with SIXTY MINUTES.
What weekly, magazine do you look at,
is it,
I like U S NEWS and WORLD REPORT.
At one time or another I've taken them all for a year.
I believe in giving anything a chance.
I keep coming back to that one,
that's kind of my favorite.
Does that give a pretty good overview of everything
does it give, I guess, little encapsulated reports then a few big stories?
It's primarily, a few big stories and then lots of high level reports.
here's what went on in Asia over the past week,
there's maybe a page of that, little brief paragraphs, unless that was main stories.
That sounds good if you were short on time, you could get a summary real quick.
it too is one those (( ))
in the interest of efficiency we all have to find ways,
I do most of my reading in the bathroom.
it's one of those that I can an article or a couple of pages of those brief excerpts in the time frame that I'm going to spend in there.
it just seems to fit nicely, so that I can get it read in about three days.
we're working on a NEWSWEEK,
for the last couple of months we got, an introductory subscription,
we decided to try it because prior to that all we got were things like GLAMOUR or SPORTS ILLUSTRATED.
we decided to try to bring one in that was a little bit better for us, to speak.
to broaden your horizons, make you think about different things anyway.
It can't hurt, .
anytime that we stop and think it can't hurt.
I enjoy reading T NEWS,
I try to catch it because it's another example,
show you the words and the facts
don't offer any commentary,
it gives me a quick chance be caught up during the day. Because, we don't listen to the radio at work at all.
I don't like to go the whole day without hearing anything.
I'm with you,
I have to check T NEWS
It's my noontime dose of facts.
the other thing we have that I like to check sometimes is, TALKING FINGERS,
do you have that?
You have different telephone numbers that you can dial,
you dial in an access code
give you, updated information.
that can give you, current news updates, current weather updates, things like that
offered through the local phone company free of charge.
an interesting alternative occasionally that I like to use.
it does sound very interesting,
maybe our phone company out here will get around to,
It really is,
offering something like that.
it really is nice, because it gives you a wide variety of things you can call and talk, and find out about.
that is something you might keep your eyes open for,
I think catching on throughout the country .
how do you feel about it?
I don't have any strong convictions about it,
that's for sure.
I know I haven't done any Peace Corps service,
I don't know anybody in my immediate family that even thought about it.
anybody that's been it?
only people I know that have done anything remotely like that are people that have gone to be missionaries,
that's only because I went to Baylor,
a lot of students from Baylor go serve as missionaries during the summer.
that's a terrible idea.
That's like forcing someone to donate to a charity.
it's nice try to teach young people civil, consciousness, but forcing them donate basically their time and efforts,
it's definitely up to the person,
I'd have to say that, some feel it's rewarding.
I don't know,
You have to,
I don't know how we got the subject, (( )) .
I don't either.
I have nothing to say about this.
I don't either.
because I thought, gosh, really have an opinion except for no,
I think that's dumb.
how long you been in San Antonio?
I've been here for, just years.
I lived with Dana in school.
That's how we know each other.
were just up there then,
last weekend. We went to Six Flags Saturday.
Had a good old time.
that's good.
back to the topic at hand.
What other types of community service would they be talking about.
recording mentioned the Peace Corps.
major long term commitment, a year
or six months,
you're looking at the Peace Corps or sabbatical maybe,
I don't know,
I'm all for donating my time to worthy causes,
I do some volunteer work here and there,
every once in a while I'll do, a, local Big Brother Big Sister thing.
I'll go, do a (( )) .
time is minuscule compared to
(( )) they were referring to.
I couldn't possibly commit a year or two of my life go do something.
they couldn't cover my hourly rate .
I couldn't afford it.
No kidding.
I have this thing against bugs, too.
seems to me like the Peace Corps,
they send you someplace that there's a lot of bugs (( )) .
have to live in a shack with no air conditioning and no medicine and no anything.
I'd probably catch a terrible disease and die.
I doubt that,
you know how it is (( )) .
have to be tough going somewhere you don't know the culture, usually, I guess.
I think that maybe that's why some people do it is, to see the other cultures some of that.
to do that, I don't know,
I'd have to be,
I don't know.
I don't know either.
(( )) Growing up, all I knew was you go to high school, work, you go to college, you get out of college, and you get a good job and you work.
none of this, you go spend two years in the Peace Corps your horizons.
huh. I know American Express,
at American Express now,
after a certain amount of years of service, these employees can take off six months or something, for some type of sabbatical or something like that.
they're allowed to take that time off and then come back where they left off.
it is something that I think, even the larger organizations will support.
really for the community give back to the community type of thing.
(( )) .
I don't know,
some people to, help them grow in other areas,
Kind of like joining the military.
in that respect a lot of people join the military grow up
m ,
and to decide what they want to do,
the Peace Corps or something like that is probably useful that kind of a time.
maybe a little bit in that perspective,
a lot of people have gone in the military, when they're in the college.
Sometimes it's to college,
the money.
don't know what they want to do.
as far as, the Peace Corps. I guess, I suppose there's a few people that have done it at that point in their lives.
I think a lot of it's, when people get older, they'll do something like that.
I'd probably have a different perspective if I actually knew someone that had gone into the Peace Corps.
I don't.
I don't.
none of my,
Didn't mean to cut you off there.
that's okay.
of my really close friends in college went off to be missionaries or anything.
I don't really know anyone first hand a chunk of their life to do service work.
Everybody I know has been,
I'm going to go get a job and make some money and buy a nice car.
Yeah, try to make a living.
have no, I don't know anybody that's done that either.
it's interesting we got this topic because I don't know what I marked off to get this,
I certainly didn't mark off anything to get this one.
can't imagine,
the switchboard's been down for several days,
the last time I called it before it went down, I had this topic,
I didn't feel like talking about it,
I hung up,
I guess keep you on the same topic until you actually talk to somebody about it.
you had the same one,
get it over with here .
I know.
How many times have you talked?
probably five or six.
Not a whole lot.
I've done maybe four or five.
Did Dana sign you up for this?
she just sent me the information out.
got a hold of it,
I just sent it back in,
she stuck my name on some list,
they mailed me the information that I filled out (( )) .
What other topics have you had?
I've talked about camping with someone.
I've talked about the weather.
That one was interesting because I talked to a man Washington, D C,
it was hot here,
it was snowing there.
that was pretty interesting.
I talked to someone about education system.
I forget exactly what the focus was on that one.
that was fairly interesting.
I talked to somebody about credit card usage.
I talked to this person who I gathered from speaking to her, she and her family just didn't have much,
they didn't have much credit available to them.
she basically didn't use credit cards and didn't know very much about them and how they work,
how you can use them to your advantage, how, can do certain things with them.
use everything with my Visa,
I pay it all off.
that's a good deal for me.
I get free money for thirty days.
That's the way I use them,
to make sure I don't get in debt.
that's always a good plan.
I can't think of anything else that I've talked about.
ones on the list, I checked off stuff like football would enjoy talking about
I haven't gotten a one of them yet when I've called.
I had,
let's see,
I've had fishing,
I can't remember, Dana had football.
we did.
how funny.
(( )) we talked about the Cowboys a little bit.
I'm out here in Phoenix,
we talked about
that one was all right.
what else did I have?
I think I had some other, staying in shape or working out.
from New York,
I had to talk to someone about hobbies,
the switchboard called me,
I was caught a little off guard,
I couldn't think of anything at all.
I started making stuff up.
I told this woman that my hobby was gardening,
I can't even
you've probably never gardened in your life (( )) .
I can't even grow an ivy.
My grandfather gave me a plant once,
me when he gave it to me that it was impossible to kill,
you could freeze it,
dry it out,
no matter what, you couldn't kill it.
I killed it pretty quick.
I don't have too much of a green thumb either.
I do have one plant here,
it's been hanging out for a while,
I think it's one of the easiest plants.
know the name of it,
I'm not too much into ...
Where do you live?
in the Houston area.
I used to.
I lived there for a long time.
I'm now in Palo Alto, California which is, I think, the recycling capital of the world.
that's great.
we have many recycling activities
I'm, in full, support of all of them.
we are too.
Our community is, just starting to get organized about it.
They just opened up a recycling center where we go and donate things and dump them off ourselves.
that's something
seems to me that we've gotten a whole lot better, cooperation out here, by setting it up so that we pay just a little bit extra,
I don't think we pay very much extra at all too,
the, garbage men,
come by, on your regular garbage day and pick up the recycling out at the curb.
I think that's great.
There's a few places in Houston where they're trying that out.
I don't know citywide yet or not where they have the color coded, bags and, bins.
we have burlap sacks,
they give us one for aluminum and, steel, one for metals,
and one for glass,
you can either bundle your newspapers or put them in grocery bags.
three little piles,
that (( they need out )) on the curb every Thursday
the garbage men come by and, collect them and leave us new bags when ours get old and ratty or leave the ones if they're still in good shape.
that's great.
really pays for itself because, then the city,
gets the money from the recycling.
all for it.
we've got several bins our garage where we, sort things out take it the appropriate places.
the one thing I wish we could recycle is magazines.
they claim that because of the way they're bound they, it's too expensive to recycle them.
At my office,
we have two big cardboard boxes in the library where everybody goes to pick up their mail,
one's for white paper
one's for colored paper
anything like manuscripts or computer paper or so ,
things like that goes in those boxes,
we get tons of catalogs and things like that and magazines,
there's no way to get rid of them.
It just seems like such a waste.
it does.
It does.
I'm sure that they can, find some sort of, use for them if, there,
I've seen talk about, using garbage for, energy.
you could also apply the magazines toward that.
that would be a help.
I wish they would do that here.
We have got so little landfill space left that we're going to run out before the end of this decade.
it's really going to be a mess when they have to start hunting for places to put the things.
I know it.
We did have, another novel, experiment start this year.
Now we can put all our yard clippings out.
these super giant heavy duty paper bags,
they're about four feet high.
you get them for I think it's about fifty cents apiece at the grocery store you, usually buy them by the dozen.
you put all your yard clippings and, leaf rakings and anything that will be (( compostible )) .
garbage men also pick those up on Thursdays.
that's great.
take them to a special part of our dump where (( composting )) is now in full swing,
at the end of every year, they sell all the composts to nurserymen and to local people who want to put it on their flower beds .
that's a great idea.
I wish we were that, involved in, or that our city was recycling,
like that
I've talked to many people
we wouldn't mind going its extra effort to do it.
If they make it so that it's not a horrendous inconvenience, I think most people would.
I don't mind,
at first it was little extra money that you got, returning the cans in and stuff like that.
I don't mind as long as things are getting recycled, that we don't get reimbursed.
I think to me more of a convenience to have them come pick it up,
then to get that two cents when you take it to the store.
know it.
We still have bins at the grocery stores where you can turn in bottles and cans,
for cash.
so few people, have enough to make that worthwhile you'd spend more in gas getting down there then you get back.
time that you waste standing in line is valuable also.
do the grocery stores in Houston have recycling for their paper bags and plastic bags?
We have,
I know we use, has, recycling for the bags.
they're promoting the cloth bags. the cloth bags.
we can get a nickel apiece for any paper bags that we bring back to be reused.
that's great.
They just take it off like they do a coupon.
(( They can just )) subtract it from your bill,
they have a giant bin by the front door for the plastic bags,
they say, as long as it's clean they don't want a plastic bag that's full of goop .
Here they don't want your rotted tomatoes.
they want any clean and dry plastic bag
I keep,
the thing is, I hardly have room now for all the things that we're saving it to recycle,
right outside the back door, I've got the two burlap bags hung up for the cans and bottles,
there, right outside place where the garbage can is we have the bag for the newspapers,
now we've got the bag for the plastic bags .
I understand,
my husband about once a weekend he'll go, to a couple of areas where he knows that the people just throw cans out.
he'll go pick them up because he just can't stand that.
how nice,
that's great.
it's so,
have all our piles recyclables also.
I remember at Christmas only thing that I'm,
when you were talking about the composting, the only thing that our city did that was they a place for us to take our Christmas trees.
city use.
they just put all our Christmas trees in the regular, compost,
they did say that you had to put it out within, I think it was, three weeks after,
otherwise you would have to treat it like you would any other lawn refuse.
It would have to be cut into four foot lengths.
(( )) , if we have branches or something,
they have to be cut in four foot lengths,
otherwise, they have to be in one of their paper bags.
that sounds like you all really have great system worked out there.
they even picked up our, Styrofoam materials.
a plastic bag on everybody's front doorknob with a little note on it saying, we're trying something new next week only,
if you have any, of those little, Styrofoam peanuts that,
any of your Christmas presents were packed in, put them in this bag and leave it out with your recycling
we'll, take all of those back and try to recycle them.
see that's one,
that's not going to be a regular feature.
That was just a one time thing right after Christmas.
something to be done about the Styrofoam that,
those things must take up a huge amount of space in landfills.
they don't,
They don't mash .
They don't compress at all.
they stay forever.
I've seen where some places have taken a plastic and, they're recycling them into other plastics.
And the Styrofoam also into insulation and things like that
I think that would be great if they could get something organized along those lines.
I do too.
The difficulty with that is that very few people have enough to make it worthwhile.
really have to rely on businesses that generate a lot of that stuff.
otherwise, they're not going to go house to house collecting it,
you're not going to bother if you have one bag full,
to drive all the way to some recycling center to turn in just your little plastic peanuts .
Right .
I was thinking about, Styrofoam used at, the fast food restaurants,
that if everybody,
I know our cafeteria here uses a lot of Styrofoam
Now we quit that about when we got china mugs for everybody.
the only difficulty with that is that we're in the middle of a five year drought
a real difficult choice whether we want Styrofoam cups to fill up our landfills or, china cups to use up our water .
at the moment we're using the china cups,
everybody gets one at the beginning of the year,
your supposed to keep it recycled every day.
that's good.
That's a,
they should last awhile .
let us hope that everybody's going to be paying more attention to this and that we will get, better reuse of things
I believe we are.
to believe everybody is starting to pay attention and take heed of what is happening.
be good,
It sure will.
in the long run.
I enjoyed it.
good to talk,
the question was, what kind of books do you read for entertainment, I guess,
I just read for escape.
Okay .
With two little kids I can understand that.
I read to escape,
I don't read any PARENTS magazines either.
kind of,
finished one last night. A great book.
very, typical for my reading though but a great book, one called, THE THINGS THEY CARRIED by Tim O'Brien.
I don't know if I would call it a collection of Vietnam war stories or if I'd call it a collection of Vietnam love stories.
Strange book. Beautifully written.
Just beautifully written.
By, somebody who was there
a guy who was there as a, foot soldier.
he considered himself to be, true Vietnam soldier.
any of the guys that were ground (( ))
I can imagine.
what's the latest one you've read?
I tell you what,
I'm a kind of, a history nut.
I'm trying to think back now,
I read an awful lot of, periodicals and, almost what you call reference books.
honest to gosh, cover to cover book that I read, I tried to read, one of Michener, LONE STAR or TEXAS HISTORY BOOK.
I have never been able to make it through any of Michener's work.
I've had similar problems.
It does tend
a Civil War buff at all?
Yeah, as a matter of fact,
yeah .
I finished one,
I think this is two years ago,
somebody had given me one of these dinky do, crappy women's novels set in the Civil War, John Jakes (( with )) ,
the novel didn't do that much for me.
the period of time was fascinating.
I then read, was it BATTLE CRY OF FREEDOM,
I think it was BATTLE CRY OF FREEDOM.
(( BATTLE CRY OF FREEDOM )) .
It's kind of like a historical compendium,
of the Civil War,
it's not a story of the Civil War,
it's a story of all the politics and, lobbying and just basically state by state events,
that lead to the events that brought about the Civil War.
it's fascinating because I had always, been raised on this, with the Civil War.
There was a lot more to it than that, weren't there?
There was a lot more to it than that.
As a matter of fact that was a very minor part that kind of become like an afterthought.
it was a political move.
It was made to placate some of the northern support but not completely alienate all the southern support because, those who were in areas, in rebellion against the United States.
All the other areas which have included West Virginia and, may have been Kentucky, a few states, that were not part of the South but still had slaves.
They didn't emancipate them.
you know what else really surprised me, now
I'm married to a native Texan
I'm not.
I've got the same problem .
I'm glad you put it that way.
I have two native Texan children too.
My husband is always, talked about being a, rebel state.
And, my God, all this Civil War pride.
I kept waiting for,
where's some reference to this goddamn State of Texas and the role that they played either leading up to or in the Civil War.
(( Mayb , ))
isn't much there, was there?
They might as well have not even been there.
they weren't a state
way that they had any part in it was after worth as to, who's going to be going there.
I keep telling my husband that,
he keeps saying, no.
I thought, okay.
They supplied some,
they were some groups of it, the Vicksburg,
if you ever get a chance to go over to Vicksburg, the battleground at Vicksburg, there's an area some Texas, groups
they had an interesting time there.
I'll bet they did.
down there at Sabine Pass, I can't think of the guy's name
the whole Union navy for a while from coming up the Sabine River which was of no consequence but still is an interesting story.
why they actually held them off?
None of the Yankees wanted to listen to their kind of luted grammar .
you didn't hear me say that.
Outside of,
the last Civil War battle was fought at Val Verde,
over there on the Texas border you had a lot groups heading for Mexico
they were cut off at the pass more or less, at Eagle Pass.
they didn't get across the river there
they're, the last,
that was actually after the war was over
it was the last,
organized battle between the two units was in Texas,
Texas participation in the Civil War was, minor at,
it's been,
don't tell that to a native Texan though,
my god, they fought and won the whole thing.
my wife's from Galveston,
I'm from New Mexico
I was ,
That's a beautiful state.
That's a beautiful state.
See I was raised in the Midwest which,
know where the Mason Dixon Line was,
besides, if corn didn't grow there,
it didn't matter.
It sounds like Iowa or something.
Iowa and Nebraska.
I had probably lived the last eleven years in Massachusetts
What does that make me, an honorary Yankee
God knows what.
my sister's living in Illinois right now,
then, she's going to come out well rounded.
outside of those kind of things, you know, the other thing that I've really gotten into reading,
I think this is because the kids are getting to me,
is science fiction.
I've always kind of enjoyed it.
used to read a lot more than I do now.
I've gone to the point where travels, I get out two or three books.
trying to think of, Isaac Asimov, ROBOT series.
I think I've read all four of them
I understand that there's a fifth.
In the last (( six weeks )) he's been on the road a lot.
I just turned around and looked up here
I see ARMAGEDDON up there.
the SHADOW OF BLOOMING GROVE and TWO THOUSAND AND TEN and GRANT TAKES COMMAND and THE WAR IN THE YEAR , SPACE (( )) that was the one I was trying to wade through was SPACE, James Michener. Didn't get very far on that.
I think I read HAWAII,
when I was about ten years old
Which is about the developmental level that, you need to be at to read those things,
disgusted with it tried to read, I don't remember which other one it was,
whatever one it was it was such a blockbuster seller.
got about a hundred pages through it and realized I had a thousand more,
I thought, I can't do this.
it really
books are kind of, imposing to say the least.
let's see,
here's one called GHOST TOWNS AND MINING CAMPS OF NEW MEXICO
not too many people have read that one
I don't think.
there's THE HISTORY OF YOAKUM COUNTY, TEXAS there.
I've got,
Is that a big, thick book?
a HISTORY OF KINGSLEY, IOWA
hell for?
Why Kingsley, Iowa?
that's where my folks all came from.
they had a centennial here awhile back.
I read the GRANT TAKES COMMAND,
that was pretty good.
That was part of that trilogy that,
Now that's one that,
Bruce (( Canton )) did.
That's one
I don't know.
I had never really been into science fiction that much until, somebody gave me MIST OF AVALON probably about five or six years ago.
I don't know if I'd call it science fiction or fantasy.
Sometimes it's awful hard,
some of those get very philosophical
they can be in any setting,
they just happen to put them in a futuristic setting,
I loved that novel.
somebody said, God, this would have been even long ago because I was in Boston
it was raining all night,
I had a hole in my roof
I was waiting for the whole house to collapse,
and, I was reading DUNE.
Which seeming rather ironic.
I read the whole damn book while I was home hauling out, ten gallon buckets water and waiting for the roof to collapse and,
you're reading DUNE.
reading about these guys wearing their little (( free man still suits ))
I think that's probably my favorite any piece of science fiction that I've ever read.
That was a movie too, wasn't it?
the movie was awful.
Was it?
it was just terrible.
see it
Patrick Stewart was in that.
I guess the guy that's on the new STAR TREK series was in that thing, .
I don't know,
I just remember Sting was in it.
really? .
if you were trying to follow any type of, plot, total ,
even having read the book, and I've read that book probably three times,
watching that movie, I couldn't figure out,
what they were talking about,
at all.
I was real disappointed in that.
I'll tell you another good book,
do you like scary things?
some history,
Have you,
books are pretty scary,
yeah .
That's true.
Have you read, THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS?
Somebody who,
saw the movie here the other day told me it was the most terrifying thing they'd ever seen,
they didn't sleep all night.
am debating whether or not I want to go see the movie (( after having )) read the book.
the book chilling.
I have,
Just chilling.
I don't have the foggiest notion what it's about,
Then I won't tell you.
yeah .
It's just that if you're really want to just be scared out of your wits,
that's the one.
That's the one.
Even better than JAWS and some of that?
character that is so horrible is another human being.
you're just drawn into horror,
of him that you,
begin to kind of like him.
Freddy Kruger type,
This guy's smart
he's suave
he's all the charac , all the,
the worst kind,
all the characteristics ...
All right.
understand that it's being proposed as a requirement,
for, young people into public service.
I think,
young Americans, they did not specify, exactly what young means.
I think that it probably would be good program.
I think probably two years is too long.
I think maybe a year would be,
the longest.
you're right,
two years might be a little too long.
there will be a lot of rebellion in that
when you get people who have no desire to be there in the first place,
That's right.
I don't think that they're going to be serving anybody.
that would be the problem. Sure would.
I think it would be a good thing though,
to encourage other people who aren't even aware that they can do such a thing.
to get out there and do so.
maybe offer them, some sort of an incentive to do it.
college credit, something,
I'm not sure what
College credit is a good idea because,
I'm not sure they need to be, paid,
a super do salary of any kind.
kind of takes away from public service.
That's right .
they probably couldn't do anything monetary,
I think, giving,
just, to receive a letter in the mail,
giving some kind of college credit,
that says,
I'm not sure that would be a terrifically good idea.
I don't think so either because a lot of people, depending on how the public service programs are set up
I'm not that familiar with them to know,
I'm not either really.
if, lot of people flat can't afford to.
That's right.
That's right.
most kids these days have gotten themselves into, financial situations,
where they have to be working all the time.
That's right.
They need, you ,
a really tough question.
young families, whatever,
That's right.
they just couldn't, take off to do that.
if you put them in public service right out of high school, then postpones their college,
That's right,
for a year
that would upset a lot of people too,
it sure would.
because they just want to get on,
It would have to be a lot of, thought given to something like that, I would think.
think it would be good for a lot of people to get involved in that kind of program,
think it can't be something that's mandatory.
it has to be something that's voluntary. which is pretty much the way it is now.
They might,
That's right.
I'm not even really sure at this point in time, programs are out there.
that's the other thing is that, instead of making it mandatory, they maybe need to publicize it a little bit better.
and, go to the schools and do programs,
and tell them that we need your help, and,
volunteer for such and such a time,
you've a choice of where you want to go.
they could probably get some results out of it.
like maybe there was something they could do in their own town or city,
in their own community,
and not have to pull up roots and, go somewhere half way around the world, or something.
that's true .
Most of them probably wouldn't do something like that.
That's right.
Although there are a lot of kids who would do it just to get away from their parents .
true too.
That's true too.
they would have to be supported in some way,
I'm not sure that programs are available to do that.
Me neither.
you wonder, what kind of quality job would they do,
Just sit around for their year,
would they really, make a contribution of some kind.
it's tough.
It's tough.
it is tough.
I don't know who's even proposing it,
how they plan on implementing it,
if they do.
not sure either.
I think, there would have to be a lot more, information, disseminated, before you say,
let's do this,
I think going to the schools would be the easiest for them.
it be,
it would take up more time than anything
it wouldn't take up a lot of money.
They wouldn't have to spend money advertising and things like that.
That's right.
You go to school
you have a kind of a captive audience,
get them all in the auditorium,
give them your speech and maybe a little slide show or something,
I think, that they could get some results from that,
because there are a lot of people who are volunteer and community minded,
they don't know where to go
That's right.
to do anything.
That's a real waste too.
It really is.
it is.
It really is.
I don't really see the emphasis on things like Peace Corps, saw back, I guess, in the Carter administration,
a big thing with him.
may be the one that actually started the thing, or was, really interested in things like that.
I just don't hear much about it anymore.
Like I say, I don't even know what programs even ongoing now,
I don't either .
That's one,
Anyway, it's a tough question.
it is a tough question.
thanks for your time.
I enjoyed talking to you.
same here.
take care.
you too.
Bye bye.
how about you.
Do you use P C s?
You and me both.
It seems everything I do is computer related.
if it goes down, then we're stuck all day.
I like the I B M P C, personally.
that's pretty much everything I've worked with
I've become so accustomed to it that, it's second nature.
What do you use?
I have an, B M P S two, model thirty.
It's getting too slow for me,
an (( E D P )) auditor,
I audit, computer applications both on the personal computer and the mainframe level.
I use my personal computer constantly,
not only do I do P C type things like, using lotus or word processors,
I also use my P C to emulate a mainframe terminal for our I B M mainframe
and also to emulate a deck terminal for our deck machine.
all I have on my desk is my P C,
getting, not only our local area network,
I'm getting two separate mainframe machines, also.
use, an I B M P S two also.
every now and then the file gets so big, that, it moves slower than I'd like
do mainly graphic work on it.
And, a little bit of word processing and then lotus applications to it.
I don't know,
enjoy working with them.
Yeah .
There's so many capabilities out there,
the things you can do are endless.
I've become kind of the P C guru in our audit department because it's mostly financial auditors with an accounting back ground,
there's three of us E D P auditors
one of the three of us has an accounting background
she's not real proficient in P C's
the other just has,
not used P C's that much,
I ended up taking on the load of making sure everybody knows what they're doing
I'm the administrator for our local area network.
I need to keep that going
C and,
So, I couldn't live my life without a P C.
I don't have one at home,
We have one at home,
I just don't find the time that I can use it.
Right now I would rather not have one at home, because I would work at home.
we've got a couple of portable lap top P C's at the office that I end up bringing one of them home a lot,
to do work.
If I had a machine already installed at home I would probably work just about every night .
One of the reasons why I got mine, was before I went on maternity leave,
they didn't know how they were going to do without me at work because, I am pretty much guru,
in the office with the different programs and (( )) any trouble shooting that there is,
they didn't know how it was going to work,
they knew they were going to have to get a modem so that we could make it through this eight weeks or so.
almost like we could become too dependent on them.
use a lot of free lance.
that's, pretty much takes up a lot of our day so for as producing transparencies and things.
compared to the way the things have upgraded,
Have, really,
what's the word I'm looking for,
I'm just totally drawing a blank .
the way things have changed over the years with the P C and the different programs is just great.
It's remarkable the things we can do now, and compared to, a few years.
Just the power,
trying to, get an updated machine.
Mine, is just putting along .
it's not fast enough for a new four eighty six chip,
I don't know if my boss will spring for it.
I'm determined to brake mine
he has to get me another one.
We think about that a lot.
Yeah .
that's what I do.
We had a printer, a Hewlett Packard Ready Writer.
we had about ten people sharing this printer
it was attached to a central P C
you had to take your diskette to the P C to print something.
now that's awful.
the first thing when I started working at this bank, is, I said, now first of all we need to all be able to share this P C without getting up.
I talked my boss into investing in a real elaborate local area network,
we can share the printer
we can, send files to each other,
we can messages to each other,
which is good enough,
it's what we need.
I talked them into buying a H P Laser Jet.
that was a major ordeal to get him to buy it.
once he bought it, he has been so pleased.
it's quite,
it has good copy.
The copy that you can (( )) with one of those as compared to one of those dot matrix printers.
I've got a I B M Pro Printer on my desk,
I can use either the Pro Printer
I've got my P C configured to where I can use either printer. The one that's on the network or my own.
if I just need something real quick, I don't feel like getting up and going and getting what I printed,
I can just print it in my office.
we're just trying to talk ours into getting a laser printer.
it's just so,
the budget restraints and things like that, it difficult
They have gotten really cheap.
Hewlett Packard makes, it's actually a dot matrix printer
the quality is almost laser quality.
I think it's called the desk jet
about five hundred dollars now.
we, got a quote on some laser printers the other day at six hundred dollars.
I don't remember what kind they were,
we do a lot of transparencies.
Sometimes the color would take too long to plot out.
they just want black and white, which (( )) we can just run them through the laser printer real quick.
Because it will only take a minute to print one of those out and then run a thermal copy of it.
that's all you need for (( )) charts and stuff.
You don't need them in four colors.
If it was a customer presentation then that would be different.
We would want to razzle dazzle a bit.
We have one in the office
if to use it, change it, put it on a disc,
And carry it over to there, and see if they're not using the printer,
You use the (( sneak , )) system.
Right .
And, wait for an opportunity to use it.
have to just sit and wait while someone else was using the printer.
Until they got off the machine.
I know,
I know,
I understand.
That was,
I was amazed when I came to work,
I worked at the,
it used to be the largest bank in San Antonio until N C N B came up and bought the rival
now N C N B
now N C N B's got a little larger market share,
it's the only,
it's part of the bank holding company and that bank holding company of the ten largest banking holding companies in Texas.
It's the only one that's still alive.
I work in a big prestigious place.
I couldn't believe when I walked in the door on my first day and here's the audit department of huge holding company, sharing a H P Rugged Writer .
I was going wait a minute .
Come on guys,
this is crummy.
how are you supposed to expect to stay number one when you're behind the times in technology.
We're pushing real hard though.
the entire bank is not like that.
bank philosophy is one of innovation and,
Lead the market.
It's just the audit department happened to be just a little behind the times because senior vice president, over audits, is cheap.
it's real hard to pry money out of him do these things,
able to convince him that it would be cost effective and that our board presentations would be much better
We find it when, we work for a computer company, and, how are we supposed to present the imagine that we're supposed to present with equipment that's outdated,
That's obsolete
run this place are very tight
it's like, why do we need this,
can't you do that with, what we have,
when we try and then they complain about, this doesn't look good.
Unfortunately, computer equipment related peripherals are changing and improving so rapidly,
for instance, we bought a ...
that made a nice ugly sound.
Your name is Lynn?
sounds like you like to read.
I read quite a bit, probably don't read as much as I would like to.
I don't read as much as I would like to either.
a single mom,
I have always loved reading.
What do you like to read?
by trade,
most of my books are, I guess what you'd call self improvement type of books.
That what I've been reading lately a lot of.
my interests switch around dramatically.
I used to read just, mainly
now a said, I've read a lot of help books.
What kind of things have you read?
I read all kinds of things for, helping people survive a divorce.
THE ROAD LESS TRAVELLED was probably one of my favorites.
Have you read that?
I haven't gotten through it yet.
You haven't?
what would you recommend?
as far as dealing with divorce?
I'm kind of getting that one past me, but a good self help book.
Good self help.
probably the best one that know of and I work with all the time is called SEARCH FOR SIGNIFICANCE
that sounds good.
by Robert McGee
it's one that we use in our work.
It's probably one you'd find in a Christian book store.
I don't know what the chains are down there. Maybe in the mall family book store, something like that.
I'm writing it down.
That really good.
what kind of counseling do you do,
should we stay on the topic of books?
probably should stay on the topic,
that has a little bit to do with some of the things that I read .
(( )) .
I'm a therapist for Rossa.
It's a Christian treatment organization
because of that I work with adolescents specifically,
I see a lot of kids various problems.
Right now some of the things I'm working with are kids that are dealing with sexual abuse,
a lot of the books I've been reading have to do with helping them get through those issues.
I would imagine helping them feel good about themselves
they're at a bad stage anyway,
to have to deal with sexual abuse
would be terrible, as a teen.
a wonderful feeling to be in that profession and be able to make a contribution like that.
sometimes it's rewarding,
sometimes it's a struggle.
I'm sure,
I'm sure.
what oth ,
that just the only type of reading you've been doing,
read any good novels lately?
I guess I've got so many books like that that I need to read
hard for me to do a lot of,
just joy reading.
just for enjoyment.
I hear you there,
that's for sure.
In fact,
I guess, the last book I've read,
my oldest daughter had to read LOST HORIZONS for her English class,
I just realized I had never read it growing up.
I just finished reading that for enjoyment.
that's neat.
she, enjoy it much,
I didn't get much satisfaction trying to discuss it with her.
I thought it was real interesting.
I've always wanted to go back and read some of my literature texts from college
because I enjoyed some of those stories so much,
I never seem to have the time to do
I know.
that kind of reading.
I trying to think of some of my other favorite books,
keep lists,
I must have a list of, books that I want to read.
Just like, (( )) I want to read that and I write it down.
I've got a stack next to my bed .
So do I.
I tend to get a little bit of ways in a book
get distracted, and, have to start on another one,
it's pretty tough to keep up with.
I was trying to think of,
got a copy of THE ROAD LESS TRAVELLED
I was trying to think, there's another Scott (( )) book that I've got that I had read.
also wrote PEOPLE OF THE LIE.
that's the one I was thinking of.
bought that one,
I didn't get that one as well.
There's another one he wrote that even sounds better,
it's kind of the whole concept of global peace, and communities
building communities.
Someone just recently said something really neat about that.
I got involved in, Beginning Experience Weekends,
it was of the people from there that said that.
His latest book, and I can't recall the name of it, is just excellent,
his whole idea is, we can build a better world if people get involved in good community building projects.
he did, mention Beginning Experience Weekends as places.
I've ha ,
That's interesting.
really was.
A real fun of books that I read, the beginning of last year were, the author of LIVINGSTON
I can't think of his name.
Is it (( )) ?
Pardon me
(( )) ?
come to me,
the ILLUSION, and
Those are (( )) mind expanding books .
His concepts are so different than what I would have ever dreamed of.
I can't think of what his name is off the bat, though.
were fun.
They were real just books for fun.
huh .
Have you been involved on the Switchboard long?
not very long.
I really just started.
How did you get involved?
My wife has been working for T I.
I see.
I'm a former T I er.
I just recently quit.
I got myself involved in a sales job,
right now, my list of books to be read have to do with, the art of selling.
It's just, I was just thinking, Rossa
they tend to come out with a new book every couple of weeks
just to help us deal with all the things that we have to deal with.
I keep getting stacks of books I need to read,
I don't know when I'm going to get to them all.
there's never going to be enough hours in the day.
I don't think so.
Even if you took speed reading.
I don't think so.
I'm trying to think of what other kind.
Do you like to read mysteries.
a little bit.
Do you like Ken (( )) ?
Trying to think.
He writes, spy novels, THE EYE OF THE NEEDLE
really, I really have found his books enjoyable .
I like that kind of stuff.
I think the last novel I guess, in conjunction with my wife over vacation last year.
It was a, last name's (( )) ,
It's, kind of unusual book.
It's a lot about spiritual warfare and some things like that.
that sounds interesting.
It sounds really good.
Hey, you should make yourself a promise that read one novel in the next six months, just for you.
so easy to get caught up on reading just for your work, or, self improvement,
you kind of forget the fun of reading .
that's true.
very easily.
I guess we've covered the topic pretty thoroughly.
I think so, too.
I thank you for calling.
nice talking to you, Linda.
I'll have to check out that book you,
told me about.
Hope you like you it.
Thank you.
You take care.
You, too.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
Okay, Deanna,
on capital punishment in our state, they give the death penalty for shooting of a policeman,
I believe also in victim.
someone in the process of rape,
do you think about it.
I think it's justified.
Very much so.
I think it should be in other cases other than just shooting a policeman .
I do too,
I do too.
I think they're doing their duty,
I think if they're going to come out and kill somebody else then they deserve it.
They ought to get it for killing a civilian just as easily as a policeman.
That's right,
I agree.
I agree.
I heard something on the news the other night they were talking about, I know what it was,
it was in little local paper, our little Lewisville paper that comes out twice a week on the front page every week,
there's a little thing at the bottom
like a call in survey that says, do you think so
you call this number
you press one for yes and two for no.
one of the other day, was do you think that, capital punishment ought to apply to drug dealers.
I think,
Which I thought was a real interesting question .
did you see SIXTY MINUTES tonight, by any chance?
I didn't,
they were showing a segment on a man in Philadelphia that's going after the drug dealers.
He's just a civilian,
he's a black man,
he just got fed up with it.
huh .
he said he's had his house broken into and windows smashed and his car stolen three times and everything, trying to him quiet,
huh .
he's organizing people,
they're going out and marching on the corners and back their territory .
I think that's what it's going to take, though.
I think so,
I think,
I really do.
it's going to take,
the police, alone,
That's right,
I think you're right.
all of us getting together,
I'm trying to,
my kid is asking for a kiss and a hug so he can go to bed .
It's going to take all of us, getting together and just saying,
we are not going to take it any more.
We won't allow this in our neighborhood.
That's right,
that's right.
it said they're going to other neighborhoods from there,
quite often they'll get shot,
because they're horning in on somebody else's territory.
That's right,
that's right,
I think they said forty one had been shot out of one church in the last year.
my gosh.
The only thing about the death penalty I know they try to be careful
they try to be sure
these people are on death row for like twenty years,
I know it.
An ,
think convicted is one thing,
great to death,
to me you could not sentence them to death unless, the case was for sure.
it ha ,
supreme court system before they're,
by the time it gets there
they've been convicted
then they've been sentenced to death,
they're sure.
there's no doubt,
then it should happen,
there can be no shadow of a doubt in my mind,
there has to be no shadow of a doubt to get that penalty.
That's right.
once, they've gotten the penalty and there is no doubt, do it,
gosh, keeping these men in prison for fifteen or twenty years on death row,
that's right.
and not doing anything with them,
it's costing us a heck of a lot of money
that's terrible to look at it that way,
it is,
I know
the way it is .
if the crime was bad enough that they were sentenced to death, then do it,
We had one in Virginia that was sentenced to death
the execution was to have taken place a few weeks ago,
I don't know if there was anything in your paper about it.
I didn't notice it,
there was a lot of protest,
even Robert Redford, was protesting this guy's execution.
the governor backed down
I was so mad.
those kind of people, I'm sorry, you don't reform them,
I don't think,
I really beli ,
you don't.
If they're the kind of people that commit these , grotesque crimes and have done it over and over and over again, you don't reform those kind of people.
being under the influence of drugs is no excuse to me.
I don't know,
the same thing goes with some of these insanity pleas,
if you're insane enough that you can go cut twelve people up into little bitty pieces and bury them in your back yard,
then you be helped,
my doubts,
That's right,
I do too.
don't know,
I think there's a point,
some of these plea bargains and all this kind of stuff that they do, gets out of hand,
I understand
my husband and I,
Wasn't it Lewisburg that had a lot of, bad things happening just in the last couple of weeks,
was it not.
Mayb ,
the south east area,
from Dallas.
My daughter,
my daughter lives down in Rowlett
she was telling me about it.
I can't remember what the town was, some little area.
We've had several here lately
there were several of them in North Dallas
it started kind of happening a couple of places in South Dallas
that's maybe what you were talking about.
Men breaking in, to houses and taking, or a man,
think it's the same person, taking, little girls right straight out of their beds at night.
And, breaking in, obviously watching them in the house,
that's the last they se ,
because they're breaking into the right window,
the little girls bedroom.
And taking them out, putting them in a car and driving them out and taking them out and molesting them and then bringing them back and throwing them back in their own front yards.
Is that right.
that is happened,
I hadn't heard about that.
like six or seven of them,
over the last probably eight or nine months.
They don't kill them?
They just mo ,
They don't kill them,
They've tak ,
they're all to twelve years old, I think is what they've been.
he's taken them raped them and then brought them right back and just kind of thrown them out of the car in their front yard.
Boy that's scary, isn't it.
can you imagine, because happens in the middle of the night,
the parent,
these parents didn't know the kid was gone until the kid is knocking on the door screaming, let me in.
can you imagine.
you wouldn't even dare put these saying child in this room, in case of fire,
Have you seen those?
got one of those in Brian's room.
I never even thought about that.
God, maybe I'll take it out.
Yeah .
I hadn't even thought about it .
That's terrible.
it is.
it's really bad that you have to be,
were over at a neighbors tonight
is just a little over two
their little boy is five,
there's a big difference,
they were playing in the back yard
we were getting ready to leave
I went out in the back yard to get Brian
the boys were gone
the back fence was open.
(( )) ,
she didn't act like it bothered her at all,
this happens all the time.
we walked through the fence out, the alleys, come to the back of the house,
I looked down both directions of the alley
I saw neither one of them
she was like God, he does this all the time, where are you .
boy .
screaming, J D
he's five?
my heart was in my throat,
Shoo, I guess so.
was two houses down.
I don't know,
I know.
Parents around here just let their kids run everywhere,
I just can't do that.
there was a little girl picked up in Rowlett her front yard
her dad was working in the back yard, and had just left her few minutes in the front yard
somebody apparently drove up and took her
they never saw her again .
man, this is too scary,
that is just too scary.
I let Brian play here in the back yard
two gates that go into the back yard
we've got one of those big eight foot privacy fences.
one of the gates has a padlock on it
the other gate just has one of those slide bar things,
it's on the inside,
come over, they'd have to come over the fence,
they could not open a gate,
I still feel a little uneasy about him playing back there.
if I don't hear him playing, get up and come out and look out the window real often,
And watch,
I don't blame you.
It's really scary that you have to be that scared about your kids
you do,
better safe than sorry.
if they find who's doing that to those little girls, as far as I'm concerned he could,
He could fry.
fry .
to put it very bluntly, he could fry,
sometimes there are crimes worse than murder.
believe that,
this is one of them.
Because these little girls will never be the same.
that's terrible.
Never be the same,
I don't know,
really scary
be done,
it seems like there's no room in jails to put them in jail
when they do put them in there,
taking a business law class at night
the guy that teaches it is a practicing criminal attorney
he comes in and tell us all these bizarre cases,
he said you can pretty much guess, whatever you sentence them to,
they're going to serve about a quarter.
It's going to be reduced,
a quarter of it,
if you want them to stay in prison for fifteen years, don't sentence them to fifteen years, sentence them to a hundred.
then they'll serve fifteen or twenty,
Which is really,
I don't know,
seem right.
They just get out,
there was a thing on,
what are we going to do about it?
can it be changed.
I don't know.
Unless the legislature will do something
they don't seem to,
That's the thing,
we're just going to have to adopt a completely different attitude,
we're going to have to say, if you commit this crime and if we're sure you commit this crime, you are going to be sentenced to death period,
do it,
if you commit this crime, you will be in prison for the rest of your life.
We're not going to say we're going to put you there for the rest of your life and let you out in fifteen years,
we're really going to do it,
It's just the system has just,
I understand they're doing it because the prisons are full,
somewhere we've got to come up with some money more,
I think so.
and keep these people in them,
I think it would be worth it everybody wo ,
I was watching a show about this the other night
they were FORTY EIGHT HOURS.
All right.
there was a crime here in McKinney,
a rather heinous murder.
There was no remorse shown by, at least one of the perpetrators.
yet, for whatever reason, his crime was not considered a capital crime.
quite honestly feel very strongly that the, man has no redeeming social values
and when he gets free again,
he will have no compunction but to same kind of lifestyle, continue that same kind of lifestyle,
and perhaps do the same thing again.
it really bothers me that there's not a way of getting him out of the way forever.
I think that,
I don't know,
think our prison system isn't set up,
where we, rehabilitate, or, restore anybody.
I think it'll only make them worse,
believe that God can come in and change a person's heart and genuinely change it,
that doesn't negate that you do reap what you sow.
if you do kill a person and you're found to be guilty, I believe God establishes the authority of our court system
I do believe that capital punishment is, alternative.
Even, God can still change your heart
that doesn't mean,
like the alcoholic that charges up all the bills on the credit card, or the shopaholic, you get your life right with God
you still have to pay your Visa bill.
right .
You still have to,
God sent us his grace
they give pardons
I believe if it's a genuine conversion, there's a genuine,
those prison people a genuine turnaround in a person's character,
they see that.
worked in a prison in Fort Worth.
Did you?
I have a degree in social work.
You see it, the ones that have a genuine character change.
It is obvious.
they know that.
not going to pardon someone from the governor,
you know what I'm saying,
they're not going to go, without going through every channel of authority in the prison.
I feel like occasions where spare lives
I leave that with the governor, who, of course, is going to go through every authority because they want to be be reelected,
my concern is,
first of all that not persons who I think, should be receiving capital,
whatever, capital,
I just got home from work
I'm just kind of spaced out a little bit.
that's okay.
that, not all of them are being convicted of it, they're not even being charged with that appropr ,
I agree with you
a person's heart can be changed,
the same God that can work that miracle also established the laws that said, for certain kinds of sin, certain kinds breaking of the law, there would be a capital punishment.
Right then almost immediate.
As soon the trial was over, then it was stoning.
the Old Testament,
We don't have a speedy trial,
we don't have speedy, punishment
it kind of loses its meaning,
if you sit on death row for months and years and so forth .
we don't,
we definitely have lost the Judeo Christian ethic of the judicial system for sure,
is still there, the foundation is still there, though, of the system,
I know what you're saying,
also, they're under a law, because we haven't been removed from the law
we've just been taken out from a law.
under the law if your child back talks you,
he would be stoned.
That's correct.
would be stoned,
we've been removed
accountable to it.
We don't need to back talk,
it's like God changes your heart to not do that.
He changes your heart not to look upon a woman in lust.
in the Old Testament, they could look all they wanted, just couldn't do it.
in the new, he's looking at your heart
I guess that's I mean by their character changes and, what I mean, it's like looking beyond what they're doing and looking at a heart and seeing what is the heart, what's the character showing me here.
that there's not a character change and the authorities agree, that this person needs to be excused, I believe for murder, rape, I even believe incest, things ,
that will permanently damage, the character of the child.
I believe crimes against children should be punished by death. I believe,
I tend to agree on that, very strongly.
sexual crimes, unless there's a true change of character.
that's where we just have trust the authorities.
they're not going to excuse people, if it run like that,
I don't,
there would probably be very few exceptions to that
if it was done quickly and done swiftly
it's not, because the judicial system the answer to all these problems they have, pretty much.
judicial system is overloaded with,
all kinds of, problems, and crimes and so forth and then all of the, civil things that clog the courts,
having sat on both, criminal and a civil, jury,
some of what goes through our courts is a total waste of time.
we're suit happy.
back capital situation, sounds like you and I have a lot of, common ground at least far capital punishment is concerned.
I would like to see kind of reform, some kind of streamlining so that, if a person is, convicted,
huh .
and sentenced death, automatic appeal which goes in could be more quickly dealt with.
go ahead and get the punishment phase out of the way, because it doesn't do the criminal or the victim's family,
any of us, the taxpayer any good to have him sitting around for months and years.
bu ,
him could be a her.
I know that they have, crimes punishable by death,
I'm sure they hit a few every now and then,
I wouldn't want to be one of them, that are not guilty.
I know that they have their, crime rate,
it's not Jamaica,
I don't think,
I can't remember which,
it's, one of the Caribbean Islands
is it like that?
My husband's going Singapore.
they don't have a lot of the crime because there is a law
the law is enforced.
that's when you have lawlessness,
the law's not being enforced
all that does is lawlessness.
on a mission trip to Manhattan and to the Bronx and stuff, two years ago,
all these kids were up on there getting arrested for crack
everyone was out,
we were across from that big bus station,
I forget what you call it,
had fifteen people lined up on the fence
within two hours, there were fifteen boys sitting there doing the same thing.
you'd see the same kid who were back out there in two days.
That's sad.
being given to them, in the court system
I think initially, when our country was set up, it was set up with God
it was really an integral part,
force people,
I think people are hurting
they're out doing crack sitting on the street.
They were the kind of people that,
I think mostly, we would want to receive it.
If it was presented to see.
I don't know,
I guess, I'm kind of frustrated that, we've gotten away from the Christian basis that our court system was founded upon.
it reeks of the BIBLE, just,
I feel like if that was presented more openly, and not just relying upon, para church ministry to come in and do it, the system itself,
what I mean.
I feel like that might be better, if it was run on a more scriptural basis, which would include, and expediting the penalties and just getting it over with.
However, certain very liberal minded groups who do not, subscribe to the same ethical system that you and I do,
such as the, civil liberties unions and so forth,
will lobby against that and hold that out as long as they have breath.
Which is most unfortunate because we all lose out,
when people go so far out to the extreme, on either side.
often, they're can be extremism hurts any direction,
regardless of you're arguing or concerned about.
I know, you're right,
they would lobby that
I see that,
that's why, I'm like, what's my role in this thing, ,
what's my part,
I don't think the system is going to get fixed.
I think it's crippled ...
Do you go camping very much?
I've haven't gone camping in years.
it's is something that I've done in the past.
How about you?
we try to go once, maybe twice a summer.
pretty average to me .
just, for a short weekend or something.
We don't go for thing.
we usually go to, a lake area, where the campsites,
are and do that.
Do you tent camp
do you have a camper?
a tent.
That's what I ha ,
that's how I camp too.
That's how I define camping .
Me too .
You're really roughing it.
of that is not the same.
As a matter of fact, the majority of the amount of camping I've done has been really roughing it.
as a little girl I'd go with my dad and my uncle and my brother,
we went to the Boundary Waters area in Minnesota.
really wild.
Are you here in local Texas,
I'm in Austin,
where are you?
I'm in Garland.
Right outside of Dallas.
have a five year old,
the kids love it.
I know.
they just love it.
It's wonderful for them to be outside.
I know,
there's no T V,
they don't have all these modern toys,
they have to use sticks and rocks and stuff like,
that to play with.
I like that.
It's pretty fun.
(( how it, ))
family thing,
to do.
try to, go with another couple that have children also.
that makes it a lot more enjoyable.
we don't have to go out and buy all the equipment and stuff,
we kind of split it up.
Good planning .
Yeah .
Because expensive don't want to rough it all the way.
even the sleeping bags, those are running, a good thirty dollars a pop,
You're right.
we've built that up.
Do you have a boat?
Want one bad.
Do you?
I would absolutely love a sail boat.
That doesn't go along with camping,
Yes .
now that's what I would like,
to have.
I would too.
Would too.
We usually,
let's see,
we try to go to a lake.
My husband and this, other couple that we go with, her husband, kind of likes, is it scuba dive?
we'll go to a lake where they can go do that.
We're close enough so they can do that,
the girls can play on the beach area .
I would play on the beach area too.
That's what I would do.
Yeah .
That's fun.
I'm just sitting here to your accent and thinking what a good time the computer is going to have with that.
Am I pretty Texan?
You're pretty Texan.
you know what's really funny?
a Texas accent,
there is just no way I've not picked one up.
sound like it to me.
I've only lived here about six years.
have you?
if I have one, it must be very, very slight.
The Yankees can hear it.
that's true,
that's true.
don't think I do,
a lot of people do say I sound like,
more of a twang,
to my voice .
Are you native Texan?
I sure am.
I've lived here all my life.
good for you.
any way, ,
Have you ever been to Austin?
we went last summer, actually.
how was,
I'm wondering, I'm really not that not familiar.
I know there are some good places to go camping along lakes.
is there?
we didn't go camping,
did we drove down to Houston to visit friends,
we went to Galveston and, to San Antonio and then up to Austin. kind of, doing the sight seeing type stuff.
we didn't go camping.
That would be fun though to go.
That's one thing my husband wanted to do, to go and camp wherever we went.
I said, I'd love that
It takes a lot more planning.
It does,
ever once, on I,
want to be a little bit pampered, by a,
hotel and a waiter .
we're hoping to do a three day weekend.
There's, a thing called Pfeiffer Rim.
I don't know if you have ever heard of it?
I haven't.
a town called Glenrose.
I think it's around two hours from here.
dinosaur tracks,
that sounds,
and stuff like that
it's got one of those wildlife parks.
That sounds great.
I think that'll be fun.
we're going to try to do that on a three day weekend, go there
Have you ever camped out of state?
I haven't.
where you should try,
Where at?
sometime is Colorado.
It is beautiful.
Is it?
Absolutely beautiful.
I've just been up there skiing,
we've driven through,
not, camping or anything.
I would love to camp,
in the mountains.
Estes State Park is fantastic.
That's what my girlfriend says.
she loves that place.
you need to go there.
She loves that.
She says that where we need to go sometime.
it's, it's high canyon
there's this little mountain lakes
it's very peaceful.
the early fall time,
I can't remember what type of trees they are,
turn yellow,
it's just brilliant.
I love that.
you would.
You'd like it very much.
That's neat.
That's neat.
I know you would.
I used to go camping all the time as Girl Scout.
I was too .
All the time. I got real used to it then.
I felt like we roughed it then .
we did,
we really did.
I just don't understand these people that think taking an R V,
and parking it and sitting inside and watching T V,
and having your microwave ,
It's not camping.
we had to make the fires and dig latrines and everything.
that is it .
You have to get poison ivy and all that good stuff,
to really be camping .
do you say you haven't been in years?
I haven't.
a struggling single mom.
gosh, bless your heart.
thank you.
time is precious,
money's precious.
it, it,
I think I haven't been able to do it,
was one of the things I really thought I'd like to do with my children,
I'm a little bit fearful of trying that just women.
I don't blame you.
I don't blame you at all.
I hope,
Years ago it would have been fine
really now,
have gone on one little vacation, just the girls and I.
We drove down to Port Aransas,
and rented a little efficiency,
had a marvelous like two nights,
that was great.
even at that, was like the first time that I ventured,
out of the city by myself.
stayed in a nice place.
real different not to have another adult with you.
I kn ,
I can imagine.
I'm just a chicken.
I know lots of women would do it all the time.
No .
I don't blame you, not nowadays.
I haven't quite adjusted,
Now are you with T I down there?
was with T I until January.
left T I in January hoping to strike out and find a job where I could make some money.
Have you? .
It was a good plan but I haven't yet .
I got into sales,
I'm selling, telephone systems.
that's neat.
it's interesting,
it's also, pretty challenging,
started making money yet.
It's hard isn't it?
hard .
how old are your girls?
Eleven and fourteen.
I'm old .
you're not old .
You're not old at all.
excuse me just second.
Honey, I'll be wi ,
go ahead.
There's someone at the door.
Do you need to go?
I'm going to listen.
We always check and see if we should answer the door,
at night.
That's very smart.
I've enjoyed this.
me too.
good luck.
How many have you made so far, calls?
haven't made any.
I've been just a recipient .
have you?
They're all,
this is only about my second one I've ever made.
I've been a recipient on the others.
How many have you had so far, do you know?
I think I've had about four.
that's good.
Ye ,
Very good.
That's four each.
when I had to sup ,
this is Gemini nature, D you know,
it's like what are you interested in,
it's like virtually anything.
I'll talk about anything to anybody .
I don't,
you bet,
you bet.
been real interesting, the different personalities .
I know.
That I run across.
I always try to find out where they're from,
it is neat.
It really is.
then, I guess I'll let you go so you can go get the door
thank you.
I enjoyed talking with you.
You have a good time camping,
when you go next time,
think of me .
Thank you.
All right.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
Go ahead.
I usually don't get to any of the current events probably until about the ten o'clock news.
by the time you get off work, go by and pick up the, baby from the baby sitter, it's, after six
by the time everything is settled in,
it's ten o'clock before I can catch up on anything.
I guess that's the way I am too.
hear some things the radio.
I only get the newspaper on the weekends
I don't even have, time to read the newspaper except in passing,
I'll look over my husband's shoulder and see what's going on.
I guess occasionally I'll hear someone at work say something though.
We have, a news thing on the computer try to look at every day.
pretty much headline news.
Which isn't, pretty much what we for anyway.
do you think that the quality of the news events that you get are,
what do you think about it?
guess it's pretty good.
like the Dallas area,
guess when you're in a big metropolitan area like this,
there's, I guess, a lot of pressure in that business to,
borderline at that.
there's a lot of competition in the media.
sometimes I think it too much trying to figure out who's going to get the best headlines. And that they'll run a topic into the ground.
they try to play public's opinion. Which I think is awful, because it usually works.
I'll bet that was the case of war in the Middle East.
of new, newsmen were created during that
it will be interesting to see what happens.
Trying to think what else is,
is current.
I don't know what to say .
that's a bad one,
looks like we're going to have an income tax in Texas,
I hate to see that,
that, if what it's going to take,
we can deduct that from
we need good schools.
we're more involved in that now.
I, I think it's better for everybody if we had better schools.
that's true.
I would think they could find a better way to fund it though,
they haven't for,
I wish they could have gotten a lottery.
they're struggling with it.
I think, the lottery could have helped, with that.
it wouldn't have been as painful as what we would've paid in state income tax.
probably would have paid the same amount
it's not the idea of your paying, income tax.
not sure there's a positive solution for that.
It'll be interesting to see what happens.
Trying to think what else is current.
haven't seen the news in a couple of days.
I'm a little behind on things.
the other thing I can think of is, what is still going on in Iraq
and the Kurd refugees.
had to choose between the better of the bad situations,
I don't know what I've would have done in the situation.
it begins to make you wonder why we didn't go ahead and go on in and,
finish the job while we were in there.
I understand why Bush, doesn't want to go in take sides.
that would definitely look like another Korea,
he'd have all these people jumping down his back, even though I'd agree with it.
I think he gone in there and blew them away.
Seems to have helped him though,
popularity wise.
it did a lot.
He did a real good job I believe.
I have, in laws that live in Saudi Arabia that stayed there during all of it too.
kept very much abreast of what was going on.
they in any of the areas where they,
they were on
some of the Scuds?
On the,
on the coast.
They were just north of it.
Probably about a hundred fifty miles, hundred miles from the Kuwaiti border.
they stayed active was military there. Taking supplies out to them in the desert.
a new situation.
I'll bet.
I don't really have much more to say .
I don't know anything else that's current other than the weather
You're right,
awful in Texas .
you all been getting rain storms down there?
We got some awful rain, the other morning.
today's just been real drizzly.
last night. some real massive thunderstorms.
Apparently, don't know if it was just the strong winds or some small tornadoes up this way too.
Caused some damage.
It did?
We may get some more tonight.
just got slight chances of rain.
hard thunderstorms the other morning.
Course while everybody was getting ready to go to work. Making nice traffic jams.
ground here is so flat,
it's all saturated now,
Oh .
we're getting some flooding.
when was it, last week, we had all the rain?
had about eight inches.
It was between six and eight inches here where we are.
you walk out on the ground,
it's awful.
It's just so soggy.
It's a lot more humid down that way.
Yeah .
In fact, miserable.
today just so sticky, so damp.
I think there were places around downtown Fort Worth last night they got three inches in a real short period of time, like an hour or so just,
a bunch.
I guess that's it .
That's about as much as we can do with current events.
it was nice talking to you.
Good talking to you, Michelle.
All right.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
The public school systems, everybody's they've needed renovation for years, but never really had a clear direction on which way to go with it.
The first direction that to see them go with.
Kids learn at different rates
for too long they've kind of lumped everybody together.
You'd learn at this rate
that's the only way it's going to happen.
That's true .
You've got some kids that'll pick up on it in the first three minutes you're talking about it,
fifty seven minutes you've been talking about a subject, you've bored them.
very true.
I guess I can relate to that, because I have two kids that are opposites like that.
one picks up real quick
the other one doesn't.
you're right, they do get bored, really fast, if they already know what you're talking about.
What do you propose that they do?
is your suggestions?
The educators need to be a little bit more open minded as well as innovative in dealing with, the various students to get the maximum potential out of the person.
Out of each child.
Out of each child.
Each individual child.
Some kids are going to be great with mechanical stuff.
Other kids are going to be really into math,
some are really going to be heavy into reading.
Instead of pushing the scales too far either direction, it's great to be well rounded and exposed to all this stuff.
why not hit the points the kid's really interested in?
if he's interested, he's going to study it,
he's going to learn it,
he's going to remember it.
That's true.
thing that they would argue about that, is that, every child needs to learn every subject.
the only thing.
definitely agree with you.
They need exposure to every subject.
They don't need to be masters of it,
That's true.
Everything I learned about ancient Rome not helped me anywhere in,
my adult life.
I definitely agree.
There's no doubt about that.
I can relate to that because going to college right now,
I feel like, I'm taking this history class.
it's so boring,
I just hate it.
I think, why do they make us take this stuff?
what does this have to do with getting, a computer science degree or whatever,
type of history class is it that you're having to take?
American History.
We have to take, this is like early seventeen hundreds through, I don't know, I think like mid eighteen hundreds.
we have to take another one that's mid eighteen hundreds on up, to basically present.
the early ones they could actually combine
levels of it, the one from seventeen hundred til say, the end of the Civil War.
Combine that into one. And then from eighteen sixty five to present,
make that your second step because,
To a point,
basically what they're doing.
to a point of it, you're giving the foundations of the nation
even then they're skimming over,
they're with it.
I agree.
if they really wanted to get to the meat of the matter, all these people out to be,
they were great men,
they're the father of the country and all this.
He had just as much dirt on him as anybody else.
If not more.
The man was not a saint.
That's true,
school system thing,
tell you, I saw something on the news, I don't know, maybe two weeks ago.
they were talking about,
I don't know where you're from,
I'm from the Dallas area.
they were talking about the Plano school system, that, they had one school that, if the students did something wrong, whether it was behavioral or, they weren't learning properly or something. They took these students and put them basically in a closet. With no windows.
They had, table, not a table, but a desk in this closet,
they had to sit in there by themselves.
parents were getting really angry about this, because they said, Why is my child being put in this closet.
how is that helping my child,
they said, we're giving them isolation time
this helps them to think.
a lot of kids,
if a child has, claustrophobia, that's just going to terrify him,
the isolation concept really works that good, why are our prisons overcrowded?
that's true.
That's true.
they were,
I definitely agree with parents.
I think that is a very wrong way to handle, disciplining a child.
Putting them in, they called them their quiet rooms or their isolation rooms.
They didn't call them closets.
they showed these rooms the news
they looked like a closet to me. with a desk in it, real small.
they said that one of the solutions they came up with was to take the doors off of these isolation rooms.
I said,
either way. definitely had to disagree with that.
I think not the way to by putting him in a closet .
as a part of the revamping of the entire education system on that lev , the public school system I want to see changed too.
When I was up, if you crossed the line and you broke a rule bad enough, you were going to get spanked.
then the extreme came in,
now we can no longer,
spank them,
we now isolate them.
we've swung the pendulum both ways.
Let's find a middle ground.
there has to be some sort of discipline,
there has to be some sort of punishment.
Short of physically isolating the child, and short of physically hitting the child.
Let's put him into a situation where, you crossed the line, you broke the rule, you're going to have to pay for it.
it's going to tax you physically.
them pick up around the school yard, have them weed a flower bed somewhere on the school yar . Do something to beautify the school property.
that's true.
you cut,
kid's having to give up his, quote, play time to pay his debt for what he did wrong.
he's seeing something constructive come out of it.
I have to,
I think that can come out of, is not just okay?
for instance, one of the things they do at, my kids school, they have what they call, caught being good slips.
when the kids are in halls and stuff, and if they're being really good, just being excellent, they're not, cutting up and so on.
They're just standing in line, doing whatever they are supposed to,
they get one of these caught being good slips.
when they collect them at the end of each week, they get to go to this little, what they call their caught being good store,
they get to spend these like money.
to me, that's positive reinforcement, is than trying to find ways to discipline kids, because they're going to be good and try and earn those things, to get the positive part of it.
they'd go in the store and buy something than be spanked.
they're definitely going to work towards being good, rather than trying to act up and be bad,
I think that not only applies inside the public school system, but in society itself.
negative reinforcement.
How much, like, the caught being good slips.
How about, just the John Q citizen out there on the street?
that's true. really though,
that's one thing that, my kids definitely get spanked when to be spanked.
I really do try to use positive, reinforcement with them at home, also.
it really helps.
don't get spanked very often,
do when they deserve it,
I don't think any kid should be exempt from being spanked.
think I wouldn't mind if a teacher spanked my child.
that's just my personal opinion,
that's not going to,
I don't think that law will ever change.
They are never going to let teacher spank a child again.
I don't think,
some kids don't get don't get spanked at home
some kids need to be spanked at home.
don't you think?
I, most wholeheartedly agree.
I don't know.
there's a point of over kill,
somewhere you've got to find an even line.
there's so many parents that say, you can deal with a child without spanking them. Which is true, you can.
there are times when a child needs to be spanked.
they do things that they need that.
Need that shock effect, where they equate the shock of being spanked with the actions they did to get spanked.
I usually ride my bike.
I have, a stationary bike and, a regular bike.
when I can, I like to ride my regular bike outside, because it's so much nicer.
The stationary bike so,
I have head phones,
have it, in the living room
I either watch T V,
or we have a fish tank,
I watch the fish, Whatever I can do to keep myself occupied.
I like to have the T V on, because that usually keeps me, more occupied.
It kind of takes the time away
I don't realize, the only time I ever watch T V, is when I'm on the bike.
usually after I'm done riding the bike, just to cool myself down, I usually take a walk,
that just kind of to where I'm not quite as tired I guess.
it's definitely a task.
You think so?
I can't say that I really enjoy it.
I wish that I did enjoy it more,
I do it because I have to not because I want to .
I bought a stationary bike,
I find that if I sit on that seat too long, it hurts.
I haven't figured how to get that soft,
I tried even tying a pillow to it.
two years ago, the Cosmopolitan Lady here in Plano.
I love it.
I just love it.
is it just women that go there?
It's totally women.
I think that's what's my biggest problem with going to health club.
I don't feel like having a bunch of other people watch me exercise.
I have tried to just do stuff at home
I just feel conscious about it.
I'm not big, or anything,
I still don't like other people watching me.
I like to be able to sweat, have my hair a mess.
feel that, okay fine, if my bathing suit slips a little bit I don't have to be conscious
of it being a little bit too low.
bathing suit's just one piece,
there's no big deal all the way around,
I don't have to be conscious of what I'm doing or how I'm doing it.
I don't know, it's, it's a total free relaxation.
hey, you can do what you want.
You're a female,
no one is staring at anybody else or worrying about what anything else is doing.
That's what,
they've got such fantastic equipment in there.
that's great.
I love the water aerobics.
I love the water aerobics.
Do they have a pool
what is,
They've got a nice one.
They have two types of water aerobics.
They call it aqua exercise, I guess is what they call it.
I've heard that that's really good for you to do.
It pushes you because you're pushing against the water
in itself.
it is like double strenuous.
you're not being double strenuous on your own body.
you're pushing it yourself.
you're doing it yourself.
you don't really feel like you're really working that hard, do you?
When you're in the water?
The only thing that I ever felt was, every time I stop and start going again, because I end up getting two jobs once in a while.
I end up having to quit for a while.
I get blisters on my toes on the bottom because,
wow. .
I really jump a lot.
that's funny,
I never would have thought of that.
a lot of people wear those little, terry cloth with rubber soles on the bottom. Especially around the pool.
they just
Like wat ,
wear them right into the pool.
Are they water shoes?
Is that,
They're just little terry cloth things you wear for house slippers with
rubber, soles,
so that,
no big deal one way or the other.
that's really funny .
I never think about it until after you go there for about a week, your toes, you start getting blisters anyway.
no big deal.
it's fun.
how often do find yourself going?
regular basis, how often do you go?
I try to make it at least three times a week.
That's really,
For a while I was doing it every day. Just,
going, five days a week.
I wish that I could make myself exercise every day.
I do force myself to do it at least three times a week. Which I don't feel like is enough,
it's at least something.
myself to do it, like I said, because to me, I really don't enjoy it.
I know that I have to do it.
not a question of whether I want to,
When I was working up at, The Summit,
here in Plano, I'd leave there,
I'd be at the swimming pool by four o'clock.
about four thirty because they start at five to six,
I was there by four thirty, every night.
the only thing that ever bothered me was my hair getting wet.
no matter what I did or how I did it, I invariably got myself wet.
the water only comes up basically chest, I'd say.
it's your choice where you want to go,
Did you ever,
I enjoyed it higher.
I'm sorry .
That's okay.
did you ever go to Texins at all when you were working for T I?
Did you
I have a,
ever try that?
I have a bad back,
I'm very limited what I do.
It's like I can walk,
if I walk for more than fifteen minutes it's going to bother me.
Especially when you're on cement or anything that's hard,
it will bother me.
Then that would,
it will bother me.
I guess then the water aerobics would be probably the best thing for you, wouldn't it?
way though, the fact that when I went in there, is wasn't for the water aerobics.
I went in there strictly to strengthen my back muscles.
she said, go for the swimming pool.
She says you get just as much if you did the aerobics on the floor.
She says in fact you get more.
I said, okay, because I'm not a swimmer.
I like water.
I'm not scared of it.
I couldn't,
I guess I could swim across the pool,
I'm no swimmer per se.
I found that this worked really well.
I came out of there
I saw my stomach going down well.
I dropped, I'd say almost twenty pounds.
Just by watching what I ate.
they fix you up with a diet, which worked real good.
What if you're already on one?
A diet?
when you go in there, they wouldn't make you do theirs. Would they?
they have nothing to do with that.
as a V I P.
the V I P
they go over all your health and all your history,
they show you to do it, and the whole nine yards.
it became part of the package,
I went through it.
It worked out well.
they have packages where they just offer the exercise program.
Is that what you're saying?
You can just go in there and join just like anywhere else too.
I see,
I just went and took the, because they were offering it as an opening benefit,
less than what you pay now for going in there,
after all this time.
it's like when I got laid off,
I went back in there, and start all over again because it had been a while since I'd done it.
I get all the same treatment again.
it's kind of nice.
Like I said, I like it.
I like the heat.
I like the,
I jump out of the swimming pool,
I go into the hot tub.
Oh .
I love it.
That would be really nice .
let me reword that,
I think I have gone home maybe once or twice slightly sore.
that's because of my physical condition and nothing to do what they did.
I knew I was pushing too far.
usually, when I go into the hot tub before I go swimming, or when I come out, I'm totally relaxed when I go home.
It's no big deal.
you really do enjoy your exercise then, since your,
It's fun.
It's fun.
I've gotten on the bike.
they've got, the stepping bike, where you step.
I've enjoyed that, watching how well I can walk up and down stairs.
I wanted,
most of the others to me are very dull.
I wanted to get one of those steppers when I bought the bike,
I got talked into the bike instead.
I don't know,
I really wanted a stepper.
I'm considering maybe even buying one of those too.
I'm not sure if I'll get benefit out of both of them.
I don't know if it would really do any good having both of them.
Which one do you feel is better, since you use them both?
I get bored very easily.
the one nice thing about the bicycle is you just sit.
Like you said, you can sit and do it, and watch the T V and not even really be conscious of what you are doing.
With the stepper, you are conscious of what you are doing because you're basically watching each step as it gets harder and down.
you have a
you can program the one at Cosmopolitan Lady so,
to what your gear is.
it would depend upon which one you want.
I think now that I've had the bicycle,
I would go to the stepper.
if I were you, I would go apply to either a health club or one of the others and use it for a while.
you can buy a month's membership.
And see what you feel is best for you.
it all depends, for everyone their own what they want to do.
I jump on the bike here at home.
Mine has handle bars go up and down,
I can sit there and read and listen to music, like what you said,
it has no effect on me.
it's boring .
Do you want to go first?
You can go first,
I will.
you go ahead.
I'm going to tell you what I'd have .
Down in the south, we have a lot of shrimp,
I have, shrimp that is steamed in beer, that
I cook.
I have a cauliflower that I would cook, garlic bread, green salad, tea,
we'd have a lemon pie for dessert.
it sounds fantastic.
what's really neat about it is, the shrimp is cooked in rice steamer,
your rice cooker.
you place the shrimp rice steamer,
you put a bay leaf and put some, red pepper over it.
Now, you can use, the kind that comes in the little can
you can just get some, regular red peppers.
Is it cayenne pepper, you mean?
you put a little bit of that over it.
Now if you use the dried kind?
Then you would only use two of them.
you put that in there,
you pour two bottles of beer over it.
how much shrimp would you use?
Two pounds.
Two pounds,
That's the jumbo shrimp in the shells.
Leave the shells on them so they won't just roll up.
you pour the beer over the top of it,
you cover it.
you only cook it until the mixture begins to boil,
and the shrimp turn pink.
Then you remove it,
you put it on a platter.
you serve it with melted butter.
I usually put garlic powder in mine.
they can just dip it,
they shell it as they eat it.
then you,
cook that in the microwave.
what you do is, you just, wash it,
you core it.
in Pyrex or something like that, kind
of bowl that would go in the microwave.
A glass dish.
it's got to have one that has a cover on it.
you, put about two tablespoons of, water into this bowl, and about an eighth a teaspoon of salt.
you just set your cauliflower in there,
you cook it for seven minutes on high.
you rotate it one time.
cooking the whole head
at one time?
Y ,
when you core it, you be real careful so you won't knock your flowers off.
I see.
you just set it in there,
you microwave it on high for seven minutes,
you turn it one time.
while that's cooking, I take and a teaspoon of mustard, and some garlic powder,
I mix it all together.
I shred up some just regular white cheese.
after that's cooked, you take it out and pour this on top of it,
you sprinkle the cheese on top of that.
you cook it for another three minutes on high,
just mainly to melt the cheese and everything, and let all the seasoning melt into it.
it's done.
that sounds fantastic.
It is good.
I'll sit the cauliflower in the middle,
I put the, shrimp around the outside of it,
on my platter.
I have a green salad that I put around the outside of that.
you have all the different seasonings and stuff,
I just fix little individual cups for them.
they have the,
garlic bread,
it makes it a real nice looking,
not much work.
That sounds,
looks like it, .
real ,
You look like you went to a whole bunch,
I bet it tastes good too.
usually I cut those little cherry tomatoes up,
and put some color into it,
I'll lay those on top of my salad, to make it look nice and things like that.
how many could you serve?
it usually serves six.
I figured about that.
that's good.
See out here, we have so many, ethnic people.
We have Italians,
we have Portuguese,
we have Russians and Polish.
it depends, out here, the type of people you're going to entertain,
it's hard,
just have to pick something, for group that you're going to entertain for that particular time.
they're big on finger food here, too. chicken wings and, ribs, and that kind of stuff.
barbecue and, cooking out in the yard, when it's nice. Barbecue outside, chicken and that kind of stuff.
Have you ever had crawfish?
I have had shrimp.
You ought to try some crawfish.
They are good.
that's one good thing about living down here is, usually anybody that comes over, even if it's like, out of town guests and stuff, they want our cooking.
of course.
they want it from down here.
just like now, especially crawfish, it is starting to move out,
more and more people are beginning to find out how good it is.
Is it like shrimp?
it's similar.
It's similar.
It's not
Ch ,
it's got a taste of its own,
it is,
it does?
it is similar to, because you only eat the,
tails of it.
it look like a lobster?
it looks more like a crab.
it looks more like a crab.
Are they thin, long
or wide?
what you,
I guess looks a cross between, a crab a lobster.
it's small like that
it's got the pinchers like a crab.
similar to a lobster too, because the tail has got the little pleats in it, like a,
lobster would.
we call them mud bugs .
Oh .
they're fantastic tasting.
They are so good.
the season for them right now.
where did you say you were from?
do you do cajun cooking?
I love, blackened, fish and the chicken and that kind of stuff.
We have a few places up here that do that.
if ever I see it on the menu, I always get it.
It is so good .
how do they do the blackened?
as a seasoning.
do you have to have a certain skillet,
or something?
I cook mine, do you have black iron skillet?
I did have.
I don't have it now.
I have mostly Teflon.
You now,
I guess you could cook it that too,
I don't know.
I never have.
I use, the black iron skillet to cook mine.
it have to get extremely hot?
not, it doesn't burn or anything like that.
The blackening is really the seasoning.
there is,
I see.
a blackening seasoning.
that is a seasoning.
not like you would have to cook it for an extreme amount of time, or something like that, to get it,
I see.
is, Blackening Magic.
it, it comes in a bottle,
I'm trying to see.
It's got picture of Dom De Luise on it.
cook it for the same amount of time as you would, prepare it any other time?
Is that what you're saying?
I could have the, chicken on the skewers, with, blackened seasoning.
that is so good. Delicious.
hot when you cook it.
your pan.
It does have to be really hot, when you put it in.
it's not like it's burned,
is the seasoning.
it is so good.
Oh! .
It is.
love it.
in fact I was in Texas for a little while.
I liked, the barbecues and the Mexican food.
I have a passion for all that type of different tastes.
I have been brought up mostly Italian American food.
my, parents are Italian and Portuguese.
we cook a lot of pasta, and, gravies, and pizzas, and, roasts, and that kind of thing.
That's why I enjoy going to restaurants and different things.
have you ever thought about coming to Louisiana, to visit?
I would love to.
You ought,
to come down.
you don't even have to go all the way to New Orleans, if you want to really get some good food.
you don't have to go that far south.
of course, the further south you go, the better the food is, as far as I'm concerned.
Is that right?
fact is, we're going to take a vacation this year.
We're going to go to New Orleans, again.
we're only going down there for the food, though .
do you go when you go there? right on Basin Street and those places?
We go to French Quarters and stuff like that.
I have some friends that live down there.
usually the tourist ones.
We go to the ones that they tell us to go to,
I see.
we went to this one,
it was called The Back Porch.
they were cooking the stuff, while on this boat ride.
then we came back and ate, out on this, it was like a back porch .
that's nice.
usually if you can find somebody,
Of course now, when you go down there, they've got just,
there's no where you can miss.
I have never gone to a restaurant, and not just been so full,
it's unreal.
it's so good.
The seasoning it's just unreal.
don't they make a lot of,
I'm trying to think what they call their soup.
I don't know.
No, gumbo.
is that with seafood?
You can even make it with chicken or you can make it with seafood.
you can?
That looks good too.
I've seen that?
it looks delicious.
I'll tell you what.
we do, a thing, we call it a sea bake.
take clams,
Do you have any pets?
we got two cats.
Two cats.
when we were growing up the whole time until my Mom developed an allergies,
to having cats around,
I like them.
I like having pets around in general
favor dogs over cats actually
a dog person at all .
a dog person.
I had,
I guess it depends on what you had when he were a kid, right? .
I was allergic to dogs when I was a kid,
in fact,
I may still be,
not cats.
(( That )) ,
I wonder sometimes .
house sat for wife's boss a couple weeks ago
he has a dog and everything,
sitting the dog and everything
I felt like just miserable all weekend
it really didn't dawn on me until Sunday,
it was like, hey, maybe you're still allergic to the dog.
It was like, that could be it.
The thing I don't like about dogs sometimes is that the house will just reek,
of the dogs, (( and constantly )) .
dogs are real high maintenances,
you got to take them for walks
you've got to pay a lot,
you need to pay attention to cats and everything
it's not quite the same thing.
that's true.
just nice that you don't have to let them outside, ((
all )) cats are indoor cats,
you're not worried about them running all around the neighborhood
they make their mess in the cat pan which is,
a pain to clean
we used to,
they got great stuff out now for cleaning cats' (( pans )) .
They didn't,
growing up I had a clean the cat pan all the time,
I hated it because I had to carry everything upstairs use this thing to, stuff out and put it in the toilet and everything
it was really terrible.
now liners,
that is garbage bags,
that sounds so easy, what I did,
the cats do it in there,
you pull it and take it out and throw it away,
that's it, .
I housesat (( from )) cats for a friend of mine which she was finishing up her thesis,
what we used to do was just put, newspaper on the bottom and then put cat litter
I would just take the whole thing to the garbage can and dump the whole thing.
Same idea .
Then I would do it, everyday or two days so I would clean that pan very, very rarely,
it wasn't so bad.
I see.
(( )) two cats and (( just as easy ))
it just never started smelling,
I would put just a little bit of cat litter in there,
because if I put a lot, one of the cats would have been,
, all of her animals that she ever had were adopted.
I that true,
one dog now and the two cats
her dog there basically a reject,
somebody had bought him,
and wanted him.
It was her ex boyfriend and, just was not mature enough to keep the dog, didn't realize how much work it was
she's stuck with it.
she's just so kindhearted that she just takes all the animals
I think that for me, my husband just has completely nixed the idea of having a dog or a cat .
that's all there is to it.
you don't have anything right now?
we don't have anything right now.
except the kid,
(( that's )) ,
right, ,
now we have a kid
he was, completely against having a dog or cat,
he said, work as a kid,
they're harder to get rid of for the weekend, .
know because the cats pretty much,
we can leave them for a weekend as long as we put plenty of food out,
it's not a big deal really,
happier when we're around
pretty much okay by themselves,
do that with a dog.
That's, really true.
of mine have cats,
they have four of them,
if they go away, a pet sitter to come in twice a day and pet them and things like that
their cats, their so used to the attention, that if they don't get it, they get really upset,
(( )) , that's,
they sort of cause trouble around the house and things like that.
That's, pampering petals .
(( ))
I tried to have a goldfish,
I killed that one within a very short amount of time.
(( )) they're not that much fun,
you can't take them for a walk,
you can't,
do anything,
I've never,
I think we had fish when I was a kid
I don't,
My brother had fish when I was a kid
I remember that,
one of his fish jumped out of the, fish tank. And fried itself, , on the radiator behind the dresser.
I'll never forget that
I remember my brother,
he came home and he counted the fish
one of the fish was missing
they couldn't find it anyplace,
they couldn't figure out what had happened
they found it fried on, , the radiator behind.
(( )) it was not gross,
I didn't see it
(( )) got them.
Trying to remember we had a dog for a while,
I don't know if we got rid of the dog
my brother was allergic to it,
my brother had asthma and some allergies which I think he's outgrown now,
because of that we didn't have very many pets afterwards
he had fish.
not the most exciting pet to have.
it's like,
don't know,
just never understood the attraction,
pretty and everything
I've just never s , seen the attraction of having fish.
It's not as much fun.
a friend of mine had, an eel,
, an eel?
he had a,
I forget what type of fish it was,
it was one of these fish that would eat, it ate a big other fish and things like that.
(( There would be sort of )) (( moby )) fish in a tank.
now we really get sick .
couldn't see having fish like that.
I could see of the tropical fish, that are really, really pretty
(( I remember )) a friend of mine at work telling me that at his frat in college that they had a tank of piranha,
and, used to drop mice in (( ))
cats, ,
this is gross.
that would be,
what did they do, everyone come around and watch them.
I guess that's fine if you have a mouse problem at your frat house,
and (( your things )) destroyed the mice.
a cat will do the same trick .
(( Let's see )) ,
I had a pet rat, , for a while,
it was a live rat,
this woman just offered (( it to me )) while I was graduate school
(( I had a friend )) in col ,
she was actually a very fun pet.
I had a friend in college who pet rat for a while.
I forget how she got it,
the same kind of a deal
I think she got it,
I think she was a psych major
she got it from the psych department.
(( Yeah )) ,
mine had been a
how did this work,
a mill rat had been bought
and the people in the lab one day called in my friend and said, this rat is acting really strange I think he's sick,
she said, I don't think he's sick, I think she's pregnant, .
Whoops .
they had (( misclassed )) the sex of (( )) (( back there ))
she asked me if I want (( one of those )) babies,
I took the baby
I got her when she was, just this tiniest little thing like,
half the price of a mouse,
she grew to be,
I had pictures of her when she would sit on my hand
she grew to be pretty big,
a pound or something
I don't know how much,
I had her for over two years
she was very affectionate.
She would, crawl on me
she would sit like on my neck or my shoulder while I was working,
and things like that. much more than you would think.
if you get them young and everything before they go, kind of (( nuts,
)) .
rats are not my favorite animals in the world,
I could see getting one from birth and everything.
sort of weird for me to have had one too
it was a convenient little pet to have because it stayed in it's cage
it was easy.
Easy to take care of
I have friends with hamsters and gerbils
tell me the same thing.
I just,
again it gets into (( vivant )) much fun, , what, I guess they can be.
it was more fun than you would think. starting from the beginning
we in the city now, in Manhattan.
it's almost impossible to,
it's not fair to a pet to have a pet here,
or not a dog,
people do,
it's not,
I don't,
the pooper scooper (( one )) New York,
(( )) .
you see all and well dressed people out walking their dogs with their plastic bag or their piece of paper for them,
it's really kind of funny.
Yeah, (( )) ,
I was living in northern Jersey when that (( law )) came through, remember hearing all about it,
we were wondering if had any special law for the horses in Central Park.
they don't.
(( I should make you )) ,
Of course, not.
they have, the bags behind them
I think they're actually supposed to,
(( Hit )) the bags.
(( )) clean
gosh, I can't even walk by Central Park (( )) when summertime,
just the smell is so bad ,
I can't,
of the horses.
Haven't been up there,
last time I was there was fall so probably wasn't that bad .
it's not that long ago.
(( It was )) ,
Not this past fall
twelve times, of the year.
a few years,
in the, it was almost October of eighty five,
I think was the last time I was there and at Center Park.
I had a friend who went to Colombia
I used to go up and visit her.
that's not too far from were we live,
two cats,
breed cats or anything
are they just,
they're just mutts,
my wife got them from, friend of hers at work and everything, as kittens,
we even met.
she's had them for a couple years.
they're really cute,
one of them is a lot bigger than the other one
, she pushes the other one away from the food.
Apparently don't know all the details
they were born around Christmas because one of them is named Tinsel
the other one is named Holly.
the scr ,
They're both females?
they're both spayed,
or whatever it is, neutered, ,
both declawed at least on front claws.
the topic was, should the United States adopt the metric system, and if so, should,
How should they do it?
Why didn't it work last time?
why didn't it work last time? .
I'm all for it.
am too.
I wish, it had started a long time ago, is the problem, because we're so wound up in the
in the system that we've got that, trying to convert over,
I guess, what'd the call it, soft conversion and hard conversion
they tried the,
one of them is where you just take whatever's already standard
you give it some sort of a weird metric number like six point two eight seven instead of six millimeter.
direct conversion.
don't know.
I think they just go all the way on new products introduced or whatever, start your packaging, go to liters instead of quarts,
people if they have to are going to learn to think that way.
about everything now have both metric and English.
They do,
things are generally packaged in the English sized packages,
You buy a quart of milk,
sure it the metric equivalent written on there,
it still a quart.
if they started putting it in liters, of oil, and liters of gasoline, people are going to learn to think in metric.
As long as you can still buy a product in the English units, that's how you're going to think of it.
I kind of remember back when gas prices started up, pretty dramatically when they started getting toward a dollar a gallon range,
somebody had,
I believe it was Exxon
It figures.
we were living in Lubbock at the time,
they started marketing it in liters,
it was only twenty nine and thirty cents a liter.
they could put this sign out front that said, thirty nine cents a liter.
nobody had any idea what a liter was,
the problem.
When we finally out that liters was about a quart, there's about four liters in a gallon
you can figure out what you're actually paying for it.
It's kind of hard for me to believe that this day and age,
I don't know,
when I was growing up, we were talking metric system in school.
at first,
by the time I was in fifth or sixth grade anyway.
I would expect people with any kind of buying power of thirty or so, to have some idea what it is, anyway.
A liter's about a quart.
problem came in,
We've tried to, instead of learning,
it's kind of like learning a language,
when you learn one from the other, you always end up in this conversion thing all the time.
it's almost like,
course this country isn't a dictatorship,
it's like somebody said, as of such and such a date, anybody caught talking in the English,
will be shot or something like that,
thing is, it's a market place these days,
we're like, one of two backwards countries in the world, as far as,
I read that, what Uganda and,
I don't remember what the other one is
There's one or two others that just,
It's just time I think us to go over.
all you end up doing is if you're in business or you're in any kind of international ,
I don't,
I work for T I,
we're all around the world,
you have to
Yeah, I,
perform this conversion anyway.
Yeah, I do, too.
one of the things that we've run into a problem,
course you're familiar system
Mils and microns.
things in inches
in parts of inches, half, fourth, this sort of thing.
you end up with a decimal, where you start getting into mils, and that sort of thing.
some of them are done in, purely metric.
I remember that stink came around in the design area a few years back when it was all overseas designs were in microns
ours were in mils.
it got to,
somewhere down the line they went standardized,
they went microns,
end up with all kinds of problems with converting your designs.
I can imagine.
one that,
have you ever lived in a country where they use metric.
I was with T I in El Salvador for a while,
I had to get used to, purely metric system down there, because they didn't understand anything else.
if you start talking about miles, they'd look at you like, what.
I had a little bit of experience with it,
also I noticed in Canada drop a quarter, fifty cents, whatever, in a coke machine up there,
you get this funny looking coke,
it's in a can taller but not as big around.
I guess that's some
About half a liter.
it's not a liter,
it's like a half a liter or something like that.
It's a strange looking can.
my daughter in law's from Panama,
Americans down there for so long, that they're kind of into both systems,
she gets real confused on distances
temperature is the big thing
the Centigrade
I would have more problem
for which she says Celsius.
more problem with the temperature, except that, working in engineering, we do everything in Centigrade, or Celsius.
I had kind of gotten used to centigrade temperature,
if it's between zero and ten, it's cold,
if it's ten and twenty it's not too bad,
if it's between twenty and thirty it's pretty warm,
It's getting warm, right.
if it's more than thirty it's just hotter than all get out.
The big problem is not having resolution if you're talking about a hundred degrees or what, thirty, zero, thirty four degrees, whatever that is.
you don't get all the little differences
it's about.
the differences between seventy and seventy two or seventy five degrees isn't much,
the difference thirty and thirty five degrees is, quite a bit.
Is about twice as much, what it works out to.
five .
One point eight times as many
something like that.
think as long as people have a choice, they're going to stick with the American way.
until we learn to think that way, we won't.
Though we call it the English system,
I'm not sure what they do in England now.
on metric, aren't they?
for the most part, I think so.
except they've got a,
we run into some problems once,
I remember, they've got a nut and bolts system called Wentworth.
this thing even different than, S A E standards and stuff.
ca ,
my dad bought one of these little Nash Metropolitans here
the thing had a Austin Heeley type engine,
it was Austin motors engine and running gear.
the body was built by Nash,
Nash, essentially, in the U S somewhere.
that thing had the darndest combination of metric and Wentworth and, S A E.
He ended up with about three sets of tools
He just get one more (( )) .
in order to work on that fool thing.
I think the Wentworth and the S A E bolt sizes were the same,
the threads were different,
that would be a mess.
it was a total mess.
on my Chevy van that's a couple of years old.
Part of it's built in Canada.
Matter of fact, the thing is, I always say it's built off shore, because it was assembled in Canada.
The only thing that was in it the, differential,
it was built in Buffalo, New York.
it's got the hardest combination of, metric
most of the body parts seem to be metric,
most of the engine parts seem to be S A E,
It's just crazy.
It just gets bad,
have one, and not mix them up.
you're never going to get to system if you still mix.
of course, here would involve changing road signs all across the country, miles per hour to kilometers per hour, and the whole nine yards.
Kind of hard to do gradually.
I thought maybe they would convert to, metric back when they went to the fifty five mile an hour speed limit, because what is it
fifty six or fifty seven's a hundred kilometers,
you'd have people doing a hundred miles an hour.
you'd have,
hundreds on the sign looks lot better than fifty five,
you'd have people going, a hundred miles an hour.
I don't know,
I'd kind of,
the other thing, too, is, between here and El Paso's, what, five hundred miles,
it's almost eight hundred kilometers,
That'd sure seems like a long way.
to be ticking off faster, too.
I guess that's it.
Every road sign you come to, is like, I don't know it that far.
they converted all the road signs to fifty five miles an hour,
they could've converted it to metric just about as easy.
I think they,
you got the problem with all your cars are still,
you still got cars on the road that don't have both.
At that time, that was still when things were,
the metric system was still not,
Not all that common.
now cars, they have both.
Sooner or later they'll start putting the miles on the inside and the kilometers in big numbers so people start thinking that way.
I know the only other place that I was ever at where they really had it mixed in Panama, where's a lot of the road signs and everything are miles per hour
some are in kilometers.
you got to know where you are
because anything that was the old canal zone is going to be miles per hour,
Jack, what type of music do you like?
I like, classical,
and, sort of, popular rock type music.
I enjoy classical too.
I never really had listened to it till got married,
my wife, enjoys it.
I had never listened to it then,
now I listen to it whenever she does.
even every once in a while I put it on myself,
used to play the piano,
I like, Bach and,
sort of the baroque music, Handel and,
Vivaldi and those kinds of,
are really nice.
I like those.
Though couldn't tell you anything about them other than when my wife says, This is Bach,
know all that much myself,
when I hear it that I like it.
that you w ,
what you like.
How about popular music?
whatsever's on the radio usually okay with me,
sometimes I have a hard time the words clearly if I'm in the car and there's noise and stuff
It's mostly just the tunes.
I'm pretty much the same way.
people always say, Wow! meanings of those words.
I know.
I'm always, meaning?
I just thought they just all sort of rhymed,
I know,
I know.
About the only thing I can remember after the song is over is the refrain.
That, whenever they say it two or three times.
I'm the same way .
It's funny, depending on where you live,
I commute back and forth between Baltimore and a rural town called Salisbury,
which is two and a half hours away,
the difference in the radio with popular music,
is totally different,
Baltimore will play more, what might be considered progressive?
as soon as you go down to Salisbury, this town that's, two and a half hours away in the suburbs or whatever, in a real rural Maryland,
turns into classic rock.
they don't,
Oldies or what?
mostly oldies.
classic rock, D you know, with,
the Doors movie came out, Doors was really on the radio there,
Where, you'd hear one or two of their more famous songs, maybe top forty in Baltimore,
in Salisbury, hear was, This is the Doors!,
it was sort of a funny thing.
There's a big variation among the country,
if you,
Y ,
go down south, country music and,
I'm starting to realize that.
I never really thought about that much,
there is.
I never,
I never, I didn't,
lived in Pittsburgh before Baltimore,
the difference when I moved to this area?
I really didn't notice at all.
It just seemed the same.
when I went more rural, really changed.
Chicago has a lot of good stations,
does it?
in fact a continuous news station, which is nice if you're driving and you want to h ,
you don't have to wait till the hour mark.
it's sort of constant.
You just turn there,
you get the latest news and everything.
sort of like C N N,
you turn on your T V
it's on.
Boy, that would really be beneficial.
news basically on the radio.
I never get it.
read the paper, you sort of fall behind if you're in,
the car all the time.
that's pretty good.
I like to listen to tapes, of music or,
or, stuff on a long trip.
now you can even get books on tape,
On fact, grandmother does that a lot,
because she's blind,
she's losing her sight or whatever.
I can imagine, if you're driving cross country,
listening to a story.
S ,
lot of the classics are really,
on tape.
that's a lot of fun
would be good.
we strayed a lot from music.
I guess so.
guess music comes into that whole aspect of listening.
as long you're listening.
have to go something, I guess we can just cut off.
Jack, it was nice to talk to you.
Nice talking to you, Tom.
good luck,
I hope you get some more calls and make some more calls.
All right.
Thank you.
Bye, bye.
Carol since today's subject is our homes,
why don't you tell me about yours.
I live in Plano, in a four bedroom, two bath house, which is the area's dominantly three bedroom, two bath.
I'm just a little bit different than typical,
of course, the Plano area is basically with alleyways,
everything around here is set up that way. Which I think is a little bit different than most areas, in the houses, the way they're constructed.
it's a brick house, with, some wood.
It's real nice,
I like it .
How about you?
certainly hope so.
We have classic ranch, up in Denton.
Ranch style home, hate to think that anybody thought, the lot we live on as a ranch.
it's in a subdivision and one story.
It started out life as a three bedroom house, and now has no two car garage and has, the two extra rooms enclosed.
I suppose we still only have three effective bedrooms
we gained a playroom for the kids and an office out of enclosing the garage.
Are most of the houses in your area three bedroom, two bath?
Almost a hundred percent.
can't think of any four bedroom houses in the subdivision.
Ours is probably the closest to it.
You know how realtors are,
they'll say, this could be five bedrooms.
if you had two people that don't have any clothes it could be a five bedroom house,
(( to )) .
don't need a closet .
The only thing about mine, I think there's probably about, when I go down the street I can just pick out houses identical to mine
usually they are the four bedroom,
they're spaced out, I'd say maybe three, on a two block period.
it's all different builders up here.
it's kind of hard at that point to, classify some of the builders.
most of the builders all built three, two.
the one thing, my house is a little bit different
I can pick it out again because it's not typical,
I've got the, what do you call a, double ceiling, double high in one half of the house.
like the den and the living room are all double cathedral ceilings.
cathedral ceilings.
the kitchen is norm
the bedrooms are norm.
it just goes down the dining room, the family room, and the living room that way.
I love the space.
luckily I came from a house in Colorado which had the cathedral ceiling
I just lucked out and walked into this one
of course I felt the same airy feeling, which I liked it real well,
it's a nice thing to move into,
again, it's not typical in this area.
You can just spot them because is so
I hadn't thought about it in that sense, of the high roofs.
We have cathedral ceilings in, two rooms. In the, family room and in the master bedroom
those pleasant.
it's like when my son goes furnace area over the garage.
He can walk
he's six foot.
he says, come on up mom. I'm not going up there .
I'm not going up there,
he says there's plenty of room up there for a room.
that means if I knock out the wall in my family room, I could make another room overlooking my family room from upstairs with no problem.
I'm not that ambitious.
I tol ,
maybe someday when I feel really ambitious and I'll start poking holes up there, but until that time .
I've noticed the houses around here two, bath, with three bedrooms.
ninety five percent, I guess a hundred percent of them all are mostly brick, with some wood.
basically all brick.
The next subdivision over from me is total brick
the one on the other side of me is about the same as mine.
the one on opposite the street now, they're total brick
they're basically almost all three, two.
They're all three, two.
of course they have a little river going down their area too, which is kind of nice .
If it's the kind of river I'm thinking of, better us, .
Are you talking about real river, creek?
it's a creek,
they've put little fountains in and such.
that's nice.
I came from Mississippi recently
the rivers that we had there were the ones that came with the rains
they didn't pay attention to banks and that kind of stuff.
you're just as likely to wake up and discover you're in two inches of water.
Do you have now, in Denton?
it's a third of an acre.
I don't think that's a lot,
in fact, I have been real disappointed in the six years that I've lived out here about lot sizes .
I'm more accustomed to a one acre lot being a standard and the two acre being what most people have.
when you get down closer in to the newer tract homes you find almost like there's no lot line at all.
They're built practically on top of each other.
That's true.
I know, I was,
there are some advantages to that, there's less time spent outside making it look nice and taking care of things.
I just feel hemmed in by that.
It's not as comfortable a living for me.
this subdivision here has got,
there's enough to put, I'd say, twelve feet between each house on each side.
I've got more on one side than I've got on the other,
I'm like you,
I came down from Colorado
there was more land up there around a yard with a big full back yard, which here, I look out my back yard and I can see the gate.
the fence is right there,
just don't run too fast,
you'll hit it
I'm not used to that either.
I could see people putting swimming pools in the back yard all around me,
to me, you put the swimming pool in your back yard
you've lost your back yard.
you've got a little place on one side or the other,
to me their not that big enough for a pool,
they're going up,
great for mowing .
that aspect, you're right.
it doesn't take nearly as long to get out there and weed it by hand and that kind of stuff.
I'm used to, walking out the back yard
you can play catch across the back yard
you've got plenty of room to even play a small game of baseball, but, don't do it around here.
the one,
that's sort of what drove me to Denton ,
when I first came out here in eighty five.
I started looking
it seemed like the further I got away from Dallas, center, the more lot came with the house the lower the price, at the same time.
it just seemed like there was a ten thousand dollar drop for each city.
I hadn't thought about it that way.
moving up thirty five, I stopped when I got to Denton.
It ju ,
with our jobs mainly hitting downtown Dallas we couldn't go too much further,
that way.
It was the schools and the cost of houses,
we kept going out until we figured we hit a point where we need the traffic, time to get into work,
that's where we stopped.
It was the same problem.
I think Plano's,
work downtown?
I got layed off by T I .
this is a wonderful thing you're doing here still helping them out.
I ye ,
you were working downtown.
I was working at the Dallas site.
My ex husband was working downtown.
been great as far as layoffs is concerned,
I have no problems.
as far as the housing, to move out of a four bedroom house and go with something smaller.
prices in Plano, a section in Plano you can really move to without getting caught
right now, for what I pay,
been, I have probably had more time than you have to think about this subject ,
huh .
I'll tell you, is it a serious problem?
I do
Yeah .
believe it's a serious problem.
huh .
However , there are solutions to it.
huh .
foremost, where we compare are now doing fifty percent of our, people are voting.
we're probably making a comparison against, some European newer republics that,
that have very high percentages.
of the reasons that we could get, one of the reasons that it is lower in the United States is that mostly we hold it on Tuesdays.
God knows why we hold it on Tuesdays.
we further
What ...
complicate it by saying, we will keep the polls open until eight o'clock.
Right .
now work jobs that, if a third of the people are shift workers, they won't be able to get polls in any case. If they, have to work late into the evening and not get up.
My solution
to that is that we hold it on Sundays. As do probably sixty to seventy percent of the European countries now.
they hold it on the weekends?
Saturday or a Sunday,
or at least a day a great number of people are not working.
I ,
in America that is not true because great number of people work on Sundays.
that is one of my solutions. ...
know here in Dallas that they have just instituted in the last couple of years, real long period of time that you can absentee vote before the elections.
have seen a really high
Have you absentee
improvement .
No .
in Texas?
I always vote.
I have absentee voted in, New Hampshire,
it is a complicated process where you have to go
pick up the ballot.
I do not say that it is that complicated,
part of the process also is that you must at some particular point.
New Hampshire is fairly easy
other states
you have to register every couple of years. ...
To absentee vote specifically?
to just vote .
registrations are perhaps problem also.
we're the society,
huh .
People are always mo ,
one out of every seven people moves every year.
is almost a fourteen percent turnover every,
if you compound
it is difficult to register to vote, that would remove your eligibility to vote.
I do not think it is difficult enough to prevent people who are motivated in the first place,
are not just motivated who really believe that their voice is heard.
the people that I have talked to ...
maybe that is another factor , the motivational factor.
The motivational factor is probably ...
I think that is the biggest one.
I ...
That's the biggest problem.
I ...
, that's diminished by,
w we have noticed this in particular.
I, just read two books,
one of them is WHOSE STARS AND STRIPES NOW?
THE, TRIVIAL PURSUIT OF THE PRESIDENCY IN NINETEEN EIGHTY EIGHT.
really ?
It's a fairly decent book.
preceded by, several other books by these guys.
WAKE ME UP WHEN IT'S OVER was about the eighty four elections.
I forget what the other books were ,
any case, i i it is, the mar ,
there was,
BLUE SMOKE AND MIRRORS was the one in eighty two.
have taken the place of Theodore White on reporting elections.
In any case, they say that, there's a definite trend, toward candidates using negative voting.
It is the only way that you can use television effectively.
I don't understand that.
such a low opinion of the public? And the public's, ,
No ,
the public
gullibility ?
would rather hear something negative about the other guy than a positive factor.
go on the attack, and put some sensational thing before the public, as Mike Dukakis learned in the last campaign,
it is not refuted,
people will, believe it.
If you don't refute it, as he didn't, there must be some truth
he did refute it.
to the matter, .
refuted it,
it just was not effective enough to ...
he didn't refute it til the last two weeks of the campaign.
He didn't believe anybody would believe that.
indeed his trend started upward.
didn't believe anybody would believe that either.
I guess I
they do.
have a hard time coming to terms with fact that the American public really was, so ...
don't give too much credit to the American public for their motivational ability .
it ...
then how can a democracy work then?
I don't know.
can it work?
Is it working?
the question.
I guess the question also that they don't throw rascals out.
Everybody seems
Right .
disappointed ,
they don't throw the rascal out, their own rascal.
solution part of this make it economic incentive for people to vote.
That sounds rather crass, I think, because
you are saying, D y y you
know , it could be in many ways where people would actually, by paying them,
you would take a certain amount off their income tax or property tax or whatever.
would be very difficult to administer because I am sure that any time money and votes are involved,
the whole thing
just stinks.
the reverse of that?
When I have heard about England's elections, they are allowed to run for what, a total of six or eight weeks. Even for the higher offices land.
What if we totally just severely limited the campaigns so money wasn't so much of an issue?
I feel like, if ,
if we did that people would have a lot higher confidence that their vote was counting rather than their contributions would count.
the idea is to get the individual to the polls, a a and we have to make it as easy as possible for him to get to the polls .
care how easy it is for them,
I do not think they are going to because they do no think listens to their vote.
They think whoever has the b .
They really think that the packs, no matter what you're promised during a campaign,
these days we are promised hardly anything of substance.
you mean the special interest groups?
no matter what candidate promises during the campaign, which isn't very much, specif ,
do not promise anything specific these days.
whatever you are promised, reverse themselves depending on who pays them what once they get into office.
I think that's the ...
read my lips . and no new taxes
yet Bush did that.
he's excused from that.
Generally, people, I've read polls now where they've excused him because there was definite necessity to balance the budget.
then why did he say that during his campaign?
he gave it,
he did
Then he,
it was totally irr ...
he did, he promised the best he could.
he is the president
address those problems
if there needs to be a change in a period of time.
was so funny about it is that, I guess, that it happened so rapidly,
He knew it.
He actually knew it.
associated with government, he should be held up to the light for that.
he will.
I think it is,
I think still have a view that the American voter is different from other voters.
he is motivated because we happen to be the cradle of liberty and all that.
I think voters are motivated, ...
voters in the other countries that you were talking about?
Like in the European countries where they have higher turnouts? And, the newer democracies
it's going to be totally different,
I don't know if they have higher turnouts
You do not think so ?
I don't think England has,
I think England has about a seventy percent, sixty five percent turn out.
I think that we just discovered the Indian elections is greatest
Oh .
greatest and massive things the world.
just, it every year.
They went down almost fifty percent in this election before they blew up
Ghandi. But,
simply because people were so
Yeah .
concerned about their inability that their vote does not count any way.
And the corruption of politics in that s s situation there.
everything is relative to when, had higher turnouts because at that time we talk about the turnout relative to the eligible voter, right?
Voting Rights Act, what we had was great deal of our population, mainly the blacks in the south and the
huh .
Hispanics were precluded by,
Oh .
by, , voting laws,
Now everybody is available.
Oh .
if you really computed it, they probably
when we said we had a seventy percent turnout in nineteen fifty, we really only had a fifty percent turnout
all the eligible
I see,
because, right.
Weren't qual ,
was skewed
were disqualified .
by the eligible voters being less than the total population of ...
kind of a blanket racist kind of thing to say the blacks and Hispanics and other minorities just don't vote?
is that just truth?
I think percentage certain black areas of voters.
I don't know about Hispanics,
I just,
Yeah .
haven't studied the statistics well enough to,
I think in this sort of
conversation we can only do our own reaction.
that just made me think of something that happened down here in Dallas last year.
They have this huge fight going over redistricting here.
at one point another vote on it,
could not get enough of a vote out pass their plan.
this is something that had been going on for months.
It was on the news every night.
have had lawsuits over it.
a major issue,
there still wasn't enough minority vote the plan that they were backing.
I think that you have really hit on something there.
to say that, those ...
What do you mean?
with the minorities we are saying we have lower voter turnout.
Maybe it now that we have minorities included in the ...
Karen, I wonder if we are recording.
did you not press one?
I did press one,
usually by this time they tell me that the time is up.
my last, auto repair was alternator went out.
I have a nineteen eighty six Toyota,
it's a little Tercel .
huh .
I have whose real good with, repairing cars
I got him to take the alternator off and take it and, get a replacement part.
we went to a place called Quality Auto Parts
their parts are supposed to be guaranteed everything
very reasonable.
I bought the alternator,
we it on the car
didn't work,
it blew out all the fuses.
no .
How much was the alternator?
I bel , something like sixty nine dollars, on that order.
hook up the wrong?
he hooked it up right.
was just that part didn't fit the car,
I took it back
took the alter , the guy the parts shop took the alternator
he put it on the little thing he has in there to test them
he said there was nothing wrong with the alternator
went back and tried it again, put it on again
it still didn't work,
we took the car up to, a little place called Pep Boys,
I don't know if you have them in your area
pretty reasonable, car repair place also.
because it, wouldn't start or anything
this thing just kept blowing out the fuses and, took them about hour to, figure out blowing the fuse,
the alternator that was blowing the fuse.
ended up taking it to the Toyota dealer
the only problem was that, it had to be a genuine Toyota, alternator because most of the other ones that they say will fit it, they sit in there and everything
there's just some little difference that, causes it not to work an i ,
they probably built that in so they could make money.
I guess so
last experience.
I had a weird,
there's a little sensing device, the
air conditioner sensing device.
I don't know why,
it actually,
there's a metal piece that fits through the belts,
somehow that broke off
still can't figure out how it broke,
anyway, this piece obviously,
I have a Subaru,
I think you can only get it through Subaru dealer, etcetera,
this little sensing device costed like sixty bucks .
are you able,
I haven't had too many problems with my car,
I got a eighty eight Subaru, G L X T
just basic maintenance and oil changes
do not do my oil changes
I will not do my oil changes.
the first time I tried to do one and ended up, trying to ge ,
yo , borrowed somebody else's jack
I did this
I went and bought everything,
after buying the filter and all the oil, you're looking at ten bucks at least,
or somewhere in there then to go to the trouble, that I figured it's easier spending eighteen bucks at Jiffy Lube.
as far as any maintenance on my car, shy away from the oil changes,
that's for sure.
my car an eighty six
I really hadn't had trouble with it that
the car now has a hundred and thirty something thousand miles on it
this was just recent,
I really can't complain about this one.
How did you put that many miles on it, in,
I used,
four or five years?
I used to work,
it was a seventy mile trip everyday, two ways was seventy miles.
a hundred and forty mile trip?
just seventy miles.
thirty five miles each way.
I did that for about three years
added up.
I've only taken, maybe two trips that were about four hours long to Shreveport.
the rest of it just basically driving a long ways to work.
now I drive miles each way,
I'm getting little relief,
still I drive a long ways.
I guess because they're highway miles, it's not so bad on your car if it, were just regular street,
Do you work for T I?
I do.
Do you?
I was going to ask you, as far as how we're getting compensated for what we're doing right now,
I don't work for T I
these green,
I don't know what you want to call them, fake
point things,
I just wondering how I go about getting the cash .
there's a number that you call,
it's the same number call to make a call.
call that number
somehow or another they'll give you an option to leave a message
you can leave a message.
I know someone that did that,
you leave a message
call you back.
all right,
that's good to know.
I haven't been doing
is the first time I've been called in a long time
I haven't been doing it
I've done it maybe twelve times.
I don't know if I've done it quite that much,
mine is mixed up too,
I have to call and get it fixed .
let's see before I had this car Audi five thousand
just bought it from a friend charged me what the dealer was going to him for it for a trade in,
it had a whole lot of miles on it.
figured maybe I'd get one or two years out of it,
did get a couple of good years out of it
engine messed up on me
I gave it to a guy to repair who works dealer
he took the engine apart
he just said he couldn't fix it
the engine never got put back together again.
I was driving a sixty six Plymouth Fury.
I think those old cars
be a pretty good bet because you ,
I don't know, i ,
when they made cars, though,
in good condition
(( )) it ran fine.
It was starting to burn some oil.
I had to , ge ,
of months after I was out of college I finally splurged and bought my car
I read a book one time that said that the best cars were made before seventy four.
cars made in the sixties and stuff,
they're just,
you just don't see cars like that.
they last a long time.
they were simple too,
the engines were simple and durable
some people will still buy them,
I guess it's still easy to find engines for those cars, engines and transmissions
keep them out you can keep a car for a long time.
Course I guess I could do the same thing with Toyota that I have,
I just don't know how much they'll want to charge me to,
It almost costs so much to fix anything or do anything with it,
you're just better off buying another car.
I guess so,
I just think they cost too much first place, now a days.
. where was your last vacation? .
my last vacation was in Connecticut.
we went home to visit family.
Before that we were in Hawaii.
actually I did visit Hawaii once
I never made it off of Oahu,
which I've heard is not the nicest of the islands.
It wasn't actually.
we were in I couldn't wait to get off .
took a cruise
we went to four different islands
it was really nice,
Kauai was nice and Maui was nice.
a great time.
We were there for ten days.
where have you been?
lots of places.
My last vacation was actually in Morocco I guess
(( that one would count )) ,
that was about a year and a half ago,
No kidding.
did you just decide to go there
my husband is French
we were living in France at the time
we decided that never been to Africa
I needed to get that continent (( since )) I ,
hadn't been there yet.
it's a fairly common vacation place for French people to go
they speak French
(( in that sense )) is just a little bit easier
it just seemed like it would be a fun place to go.
I'm sure it was wonderful.
didn't really have enough time.
We had about, a little bit less than two weeks.
as always, a bit, rushed.
We do a lot of traveling around.
We rented a car and drove pretty much everywhere.
Was it hot?
in fact some of the days we froze.
It was,
we were there in the winter.
In or February, I don't remember which,
I was born in Saudi Arabia
when my father worked there used to travel quite a bit, all around
Europe and whatnot,
I was very young
I don't remember that
what age did you,
I was three when we moved back here.
that's too bad
I don't remember
we have all these wonderful pictures of all these great places that they have been ,
huh .
that was a baby
Morocco I think would be wonderful
that area of the world I think would be great.
It was a very interesting vacation.
The only thing I didn't like was in some of the more touristy areas
would just be besieged by people wanting to be your guide
there were some places,
where people, defini ,
there would be kids there that were excellent at ripping you off,
we had nothing taken because we knew
we had things in inside pockets and jacket underneath a coat type of thing.
found that in Jamaica.
It was the same way,
that people would come up and drugs and things like that
were so destitute
I guess make all their money on tourism
they would come up and ask you, you want to buy different things
really, after awhile it really gets annoying,
a little scary too when they're coming up and they're all over you.
worst place was in Marrakech
the other cities it wasn't nearly as bad
a couple of them it was, what we did in some of the other cities
they tell you to do that is to hire a local guide
it doesn't matter who it is
they keep everyone else away from you.
it's worth it
it's like ten dollars a day or something
its worth it just to keep everyone else away from badgering you
you feel stupid doing that
we did it,
we were much happier,
you also get in to see things that you might not get into
if you were alone,
that's great.
Where else have you been?
you lived in France,
you've been all through Europe.
I haven't been all through Europe,
like I haven't been to Italy yet.
we're going to go for a conference in September
hopefully, we'll get to travel a little bit too.
my more exciting spots have been,
I've been to the Galapagos Islands.
that was one of the most wonderful vacations I've ever had.
Lots of wildlife
If you like wildlife, it's a fabulous vacation.
If you don't like wildlife it's probably not of interest .
was really, really fabulous
just the photos I have of it and gosh, incredible and be so close,
Now when was that, when were you there?
August, eighty eight.
after there I went to Hawaii,
a lot of my travel has been sort of based around conferences or business meetings
I went to Hawaii and then to Australia
and Japan and China,
Did you go on the Barrier Re ,
did you see the Great Barrier Reef go snorkeling?
I didn't go diving.
a diver
actually been another of my favorite vacations has been taking little diving trips
I didn't get to the Great Barrier Reef.
I drove from Sidney down to Melbourne and over to
It's gorgeous, absolutely gorgeous.
The coastline was just incredible.
It's huge.
Is it really?
Did you have shrimp?
I've seen in,
show all this wonderful seafood great big prawns, the big shrimp
I don't remember if I had shrimp.
Didn't have shrimp there ?
I don't think so.
I remember food .
I like that too.
in fact I didn't eat out that much there because I was traveling by myself in a car,
it would have been, I think, much more fun to do it in the van,
with a bunch of people.
you're adventurous.
You went by yourself.
I was by myself in China too.
China was a little bit more, of a challenge.
wasn't more of a challenge in a sense because I hired a guide all the time,
I never, got out by myself, or not much,
Was it very expensive?
I paid about either a thousand dollars or a little bit,
maybe it was about a thousand dollars, maybe a little bit less,
I don't really remember, for ten days including all my meals, a guide, a car, the airfare
You're kidding!
No kidding!
(( )) this is from Hong Kong,
I was already in Hong Kong
it only cost you about a thousand dollars to go there
I went to Beijing, Shanghai, Chengdu
then I took a train up from Shanghai to a little, Quingdao I think is the name of it.
It's a little, sort of getaway retreat village not far from Shanghai.
It's just a train ride.
I had two internal plane flights and a couple of other things.
It was really,
All for a thousand dollars?
That really surprises me.
Around a thousand.
I guess I relate it Japan where things are very expensive, aren't they?
in the top of the line hotels
I stayed in,
they were all completely clean,
they were newly built
they were sort of the lower end of the top of the line, hotels,
because they said you can't stay in the cheap stuff.
you don't want to stay in the very exclusive,
because you don't really even get a flavor of the country if you're,
that was,
way to go.
If you're ever interested in going the route, I dealt with this woman,
her name was Rita at China Tours in Boston .
a friend of mine who had gone for a business trip to China
she just gave me this woman's name to contact
it would really be fun, I think ideally with like two couples because you have a car and a driver
and a guide
I grew up out in the country and, was used to having, guns around the place
I'm, not for gun control,
in the strictest sense of the, word.
think I'm kind of bent towards middle liberal of the bridge myself.
I have quite a collection myself
I'm a good hunter
I started hunting when I was twelve years old.
Of course, my parents made me take hunters safety classes
I don't want to see them ban guns completely
I don't want them to completely turn loose of their controls either
feel that its,
I think what was National Rifle Association, had this bumper sticker a few years back you outlaw guns,
only outlaws will have guns then.
I believe that.
I believe that too because the person that is wanting to,
commit a crime is going to find a way to get a gun, a knife, rock,
a stick, whatever it is, to commit a crime with,
it's the honest citizens like ourselves that are responsible about use of guns,
we can handle it
there's an element that can't.
got to the point now where even police departments and our D E A agents and everything have to carry automatic weapons
everybody that's in drug has got them.
They have got them outgunned.
There was article in the paper just this week where I think it's, one of the gun companies, I can't remember which, was developing a automatic pistol for the F B I
which would give them additional firepower.
It had, held a fifteen shot clip,
Yeah .
which, to put down anything that came at them,
that would be,
you figure you got some drug guy out there that's got an Uzi machine gun,
a thirty eight,
Smith and Wesson revolver isn't going to do you much good.
it's sure not.
I have lived in, Illinois at one time
passed a, it wasn't really gun control
it was, you had to register as a gun owner,
you didn't have to list your guns,
you had to have this card,
it was like a driver's license card that you had to have it in order to buy ammunition
that was the first,
this was twenty years ago.
they had that so that they were trying to control it a little bit in that respect.
in California they,
In California they make you register when you buy ammunition.
You have to sign a,
they take your name and driver's license number, license number and all that good stuff,
before you can buy any big ammunition.
Especially for handguns,
rifles aren't too bad,
any kind of handgun at all,
if it will fit in a handgun and a rifle you would still have to buy it,
or sign up for it,
We lived in Tennessee for awhile
I bought a pistol there
there was a fifteen day waiting period.
You had to fill out an application and,
go down to the sheriff's office and get fingerprinted
C and,
then you had fifteen days while they checked to see if you had any kind of criminal record before that you could pick up the gun you were purchasing.
that's not a bad idea.
I think that, waiting period,
can make a difference
again it's going to be the law abiding citizen that's going to comply with that.
it is.
there's, I don't,
think there's any way to control the criminal element as far as guns is concerned because,
only way they could do it I think, would be to stiffen the penalties on anybody using a gun.
I think if we kind of stiffen them up a little bit, course,
feel kind of weird about that anyway,
I think if somebody shoots somebody, they ought to be shot.
getting into capital punishment now .
agree with you there that,
It would definitely be gun control .
again the purpose of gun control is to control how it is being used
is what the purpose should be.
It's not to keep people from buying a gun that need one for a specific purpose, legal purpose
but to keep the guy that's illegal from getting his hands on one.
I'm in favor of keeping illegal guy from getting one in his hands
the legal person or lawful person should not be penalized because there is the criminal element.
actually a necessity in life,
They're not,
not everybody needs a gun
sooner or later I need one.
whether I'm out hunting or
I'm never had to protect my life or,
I did in the service but on the street
I don't really need one (( aspects )) ,
You don't have to carry one in your car or your,
or your pocket all the time.
for recreation,
I don't,
I enjoyed my guns.
I have a good time with them
I know what,
I took my kids out and taught them out, how to shoot a gun.
My wife the same thing, she knows how to shoot any weapon that we have that I have an arsenal or anything,
we have several guns around the house
one of these days my grandkids probably.
I think it's,
you got to the
living in Dallas there's not that many places to go shoot
still I think they ought to know how to use one and that it's not just a toy and that it's not like on T V when someone gets shot, they get back up.
If someone gets shot with a,
real gun they don't get back up.
I had to explain that to my,
I've got a six year old now
I have a fifteen year old and a seventeen year old,
they understand now.
I've taken time to teach them
the young boy wants to know
I told him, you're a little bit young for a gun. Let me go out here and, we would start with the B B gun deal,
he started with the B B gun and shot a couple of holes in a couple of windows
I took it away from him,
I said now,
he's learning the hard way
at least it was a B B gun not a twenty two or a four ten or something
I remember I had an old uncle up by Tulsa, Oklahoma that took me out and, showed me.
it was my mother's uncle,
this was a gentleman in his sixties,
he took me out with him and, single shot twenty two,
and taught me how to shoot.
We went squirrel hunting
All right.
he taught me how to shoot, a old single shot twenty two
I was probably about twelve at the time,
I thought that was the neatest thing
of course Uncle Sam hunting with him
he let me shoot and showed me how.
All right.
I think there is a lot of responsibility on any of us gun owners to make sure that whoever is around us is at least safe and knows how to use one.
I don't want to get out there deer hunting and have some guy blow me away,
that's about all I,
we agreed pretty well on this I think.
I think so.
it's been real nice talking with you.
All right,
have a good one.
Bye bye .
Do you have children?
I have a daughter.
Do you.
How old is she?
She's only about, a little less than two years old.
I guess you have not reached the stage where you need to, promote a college or anything,
I've got one that's seven and one that's three,
started saving,
that's all.
Yeah .
are you planning to, encourage your children to go to a particular school?
, no,
no particular school.
I think that's really a decision
That you are going to let them make.
help them make in terms of, what
wanting to do.
a big influence, I think and,
you can afford, but going to be best for them
in terms of what their career goals are.
you need to go to a school that handles whatever it is you want to do.
Where did you go to school?
University of Mississippi.
Was that local or,
within the state.
was not necessarily local, it was,
so what's, (( )) ,
What's the criterion for choosing to go there?
at the time, I was, thinking of going pre med
in the state, they had the best pre med curriculum for the, state institutions.
It was choice between there and, a private college
that, was a bit more expensive.
At the time, we really could not afford it
I ended up going there although it was quite a drive away for me.
I enjoyed it.
commute everyday then
it was a six hour drive.
when you said it was way away, I did not know meant you had to drive like an hour
(( )) (( )) like another world.
did not get home that often,
at that age
difficult sometimes.
Especially, if you have not been away a lot
that extended .
did you go there, straight out of high school?
I did not get my degree until later on,
I just finished mine a couple of years ago.
I guess, when you have to do it that way, it your choices a lot easier
that's true.
like, when I went on to get masters
at the time.
I was not going to try to pick and go somewhere else
because I was pretty much settled
I was trying to work.
when you are first going to school you kind of have the luxury of being able to
have some latitude in choosing the place to go.
group do you work in in T I?
the computer science center.
where is that at?
north building.
I see.
How long do you work for T I?
about three years.
Did you work somewhere else,
sounds like you got your masters before here
I have,
I came straight from school to here.
I see.
cause this was the real job after getting my degree.
After your masters or after your,
After my masters.
I see.
My undergraduate degree was what my masters was.
I see.
I made a career change
I see.
let's see
I, have not (( ))
there's a lot of pluses and minuses for different schools, just like you said.
depending on what they want to specialize in and what you can afford, different things like that,
have not
really made up my mind, whether to encourage them to go different places
(( One day )) I would like to, the,
like the school where I went.
I would not hesitate at all encourage her to go there
there if she wanted to.
the school where I got my masters at, was a different school.
I liked it almost as well.
that, I'm not going to hold them to that
just because I went there.
I, think that's
If they want to, that's fine, but
otherwise not. Although I get quite a break on, on tuition .
because you went there.
they, allow for, tuition, break for out of state students
who children of alumnae.
I didn't know that.
certain schools do it.
This school does.
was involved in some, alumnae recruiting, here in town, recently, last year .
it was kind of fun, because you are trying to get people interested in your school,
they were,
this was a college night high school in Richardson.
it was,
there were a bunch of kids, a bunch of schools.
There were a hundred schools, probably there
all competing for the same kids.
It's kind of interesting to talk up, your,
your own school,
I was surprised by the number of kids that by and had heard of, our school.
were interested in it.
we, (( ))
situations like that, you don't realize, until you start thinking about it, the kinds of (( )) advantages you school may have over others.
was pleased with that.
That worked out so well.
did you drum up any interest (( then ))
I think so.
that's good.
I don't know offhand
it seemed like there were quite a few
kids that were definitely interested in going there.
There was one mother who, came by right, even, before we started, obviously was, very interested in getting daughter in having gotten her daughter in or something
she was wanting some more information.
daughter was, dru , a majorette or something.
a baton twirler or something
letting us know (( )) good her daughter was.
She had cards printed up,
describing, business cards describing her daughter's, she had won several different twirling awards, and all this,
she these business cards she was passing out
it was quite a production.
I think some parents go a little bit overboard.
it sounds like it.
I think Richardson is probably one of the places that would definitely
the topic is selecting care for the elderly.
I don't have elderly parents, yet but not that far in the distant future.
What about yourself?
my parents are both in their seventies.
mother and stepfather, and my father and stepmother are all in their seventies.
my, father and stepmother are not in very good health.
this is something that is,
A concern of yours right now.
it is.
they living independently, right now?
they are.
They are.
Have you looked at any homes for them or talked to them about that?
Not for them, mother and stepfather set up an arrangement where they have a large home and, two of my sisters their families, one of them's husband and then all the children are living in this home.
Its got a lot of bedrooms and bathrooms
they all share the same kitchen and dining room and den and kitchen.
thinking of a time when one or the other of them might need care
they felt like that would be their alternative to a nursing home.
that sounds the ultimate.
they were so ill that they needed nursing care that could not be given in the home.
even at that point, most care can be given the home.
That sound like just an excellent solution.
You must feel real good about that.
felt good about it because that's my personal feeling also.
read a lot
I know people have visited nursing homes and, have had great, grandparents in the nursing homes
it was not a happy situation any of them.
we have a very active nursing home here in Plano has, activities going all the time
they have,
even the people that are wheelchair bound really incapacitated.
Go and, participate in olympics
they make their crafts and sell them at a big fair that's held annually at a big mall here .
are of activities going on all the time
this is a nursing home,
it's not a senior citizens home.
that the people are really,
Really in need of a nursing home.
They need,
the nursing care,
it's a very expensive solution.
I think we just, listen to, the fact that there are good solutions both inside and outside of nursing homes.
It's just a matter of finding,
a good home.
of course, there is always the problem of being to afford either of those solutions.
that, I think is what is scary,
I also feel that that's where some of the bad images of nursing homes come from. Is when people have to put people in a nursing homes
they really can not afford the best.
that's right, took my husband one night to an emergency room when he was in an emergency situation
they brought in a very elderly man from a nursing home who apparently inhaled some chicken he was eating.
he not been in the home too long, just a week or so,
when came in to see him, they had not been made aware,
I was in the room when the emergency technicians brought him in from the ambulance
I overheard their conversation.
when the family walked in, his wife and daughter and son in law, they were not even aware of what had happened.
I told them he strangled on some chicken
woman, the wife said he was not even supposed to be eating any food like that that would require chewing or,
I thought ,
What a shame,
they put him in the home so that he could be cared for
they could have done that well at home.
she was upset,
he had on two different shoes, one of which was not even his.
He had on a pair,
of slacks,
the wife said "these are not his slacks"
she said "I just took two pair over yesterday for him (( that were )) clean."
You hear these stories,
all the time.
this was just something that I was,
You happened,
I witnessed to.
at no point did anybody from the nursing home come in.
we were there in the same room with the man for a half hour .
with just a curtain, of course, between us
the man and cleared out his airway and so forth,
he was definitely,
just by looking at him and the way he acted, you could tell he was in need nursing home care,
the family were all talking about, putting him in another home.
They said he will not go back
to that one.
I'm glad they have a solution.
I'm glad they the option.
To do that,
I know.
would hate to be in a position where that was all I could afford
ex husband's grandmother had been in a nursing home now for, it must be seven, eight years,
It's just condition instantly upon getting into that home.
As the situation is so sad because it just takes all the dignity away from,
from people who have been independent all their lives.
this was a really neat vital woman
you get in a nursing home
the first thing that happens you have to share whole living space,
with someone that you have never known before in your life.
(( oh )) do not know what the answer is,
I do know that there are some wonderful places out there
a lot of it goes down to just money.
That's right.
And family support,
if you, have family that, you can live with.
Visits everyday.
I think the way of selecting a nursing home would be similar to the way you would select child care,
You would do your research
you would go visit.
hopefully, it so that you could go there anytime.
if you could not go there anytime, then that would make you,
a little bit su ,
D You know, my, I remember grandmother many years ago when she was in a nursing home before she died
I guess there was not a name for what she had at that time,
I guess Alzheimer's would come as close as anything,
she really was not aware of what she was doing.
remember she had several strokes
the nursing home was right next to a hospital
they would rush her to the hospital and revive her and just bring her back to the nursing home in a couple of days.
it was just like keeping something.
we've talked a little bit about the Plano school system.
really have been pleased with Plano.
I have a child who,
my son is learning disabled,
I thank God every day that I have the resources that we have tapped into.
is he the elementary school?
He's in elementary school.
he's not severely learning disabled.
he just,
he is being helped.
He's being helped.
was in resource from second grade till fourth grade in math,
they recently released him from,
resource, which thrilled,
I really was.
just thought that was so neat, that they got him over that hump.
he's in the Herman Method of Reading.
I don't know if you're,
that's something new to me.
familiar with that.
It is something new,
basically what they do is they start right from the beginning relearning the sounds of letters.
I think I read about that in the paper.
It's wonderful.
Doctor Haggard heading that up.
it's wonderful.
He didn't have a problem with reading.
As a matter of fact, he's reading on level.
The problem was his spelling.
watching the way he has struggled,
it's interesting, because I'm convinced I have the same learning disability, or had,
that was ignored.
how to solve your problems on your own.
That's right.
not an intelligence problem.
It's just a problem with learning.
he had this since kindergarten,
is this something that maybe learning phonetics,
he just didn't learn the right way?
it's funny.
he was in first grade, he had trouble spelling,
I would say to the teacher, it's amazing.
He will be able to,
you'll say to him, spell cat,
he'll say C A T,
he would go to write it,
he would write C O T.
I kept saying to the teacher, something is wrong here.
Something is wrong here.
the teacher kept saying, he has a May birthday.
He's just immature.
second grade it was,
I will,
these teachers as far as I'm concerned are absolute saints, because in second grade, it was about the second week of school, I went up there,
requested a conference
because all year long they kept telling me I was crazy.
that's great for parents to be involved.
I was,
went up there the second week of school
I said, something is wrong,
thank God teacher, the team leader, was a special education major.
how great.
was able to zero in.
She had picked it up,
she had already picked it up.
she said, were going to call you if you hadn't called us.
We think there's a learning disability
we think he needs to be tested immediately, because, once the first report card comes in, they,
have all these people being tested,
she said, I think we can get him real fast.
sure enough, they tested him
he qualified the help,
it's been great,
thank God I'm here, because know I have a sister who has the other extreme.
She has child in Connecticut who is extremely gifted,
because of the cutbacks in the economy
they have nothing for her.
to me that's the same thing.
like having a child who has a learning disability that's being ignored,
this poor gifted child is being ignored.
that's something that parents, I think, are able to help the gifted child in the home more than they could help the learning disabled child.
That's true.
That's true.
that's something you can do by just enrichment types of things in the home
learning disability, unless you are schooled in the types of things and ways to help a child like that, then it makes it real difficult
the benefit I see in public schools
is you do have government money to fund,
the kinds of programs
that these students need,
I'm not sure that the private schools or parochial schools address that problem,
they test kids before they take them,
if they're a behavior problem, they're out.
They don't take them,
that's right.
this is kind of a rejection type of thing,
we get it even at our level
I work a nine ten school,
we get students that come in that have been kicked out of the, parochial schools
they come in
their attitude is, "I'm a bad boy," and proceed to prove it.
really hate that for them.
would rather they not have that attitude,
when comparing test scores,
I know recently I was in a discussion
they were comparing test scores between private schools and public schools,
that was one of the points that I made, is that you're not comparing apples to apples.
That's right.
you can't say, I know Steven probably would not be accepted because he has a learning disability
into a private school. too bad.
on the other hand, can't necessarily blame them,
are a private school
That's right,
can do whatever they want.
they can be selective,
that's right,
they have the ability to be selective.
you can't say then, public schools not as good.
Perhaps they are, because
If you choose the select top group out of the public schools and tested them, and then compared them school group, then I think you would have a more equitable
You're right.
I have a problem when they compare the kids in Japan or Germany to the kids here.
in, the kids in Japan to try out to even get into, to which kindergarten they're going to get into,
you only,
in fact, they've had cases in the past where parents have committed suicide because their child has not gotten into the top kindergarten, which means they probably won't get into the top elementary high school,
if they don't, when they reach a certain age, that's the end of their schooling.
they don't ever really go on.
It's only their top ones that go on, like ours do.
creates a problem.
you can't compare, because they go so many more hours.
The other thing is that the priority in the family is that child's education,
and is that child.
you see that with the foreigners that come here.
That's right.
was talking to somebody recently or read somewhere said that, these children, had to be the best,
they put off all social life, all everything,
That's right,
that's right.
is that good?
the child is very bright,
on the other hand, I feel like my children, who are kind of middle of the road, have,
Better coping skills.
are more rounded,
I think it's real important to have friends.
I think it's real important to play sports.
I think it's real important to be part of a team.
that's why I said, their childhood is extremely different from mine.
We didn't do all that
We certainly didn't carpool and run the way I do.
see the parents, encouraging those students to get on athletic teams or,
drill teams or band,
it's strictly stick to the educational,
it's interesting to see them as they get older, then that is the type of adult they are.
this is a very timely topic inasmuch as we're going to a family reunion this weekend.
are you really?
Where is it going to be?
Down at Lake Texoma lodge.
this is one that's, the Baker family reunion
this has been going on twenty five years or thirty,
something like that.
Maybe longer than that, I'm going to get back into the fifties sometime.
First time, married into the family,
the first time I went was about fifty seven, I think.
this one has been well organized
in fact it used to be at Lake Brownwood,
now it's Lake Texoma, because that's more central location
for people from Oklahoma and Texas to come to.
I'm sure location's really important as far as figuring out where one ought to be.
Very important, because, you'll start losing people if it's too far to go.
We have factions, when it's one part,
have one reunion on my mother's side,
we found that if it's in a certain part of Texas, some people come,
if it's elsewhere, other people come
we never get them at both of them
Never get them at both places,
it seems like,
I think we need to find a new place .
listen, had this one,
it just,
of course, over the years it has, built up as far as the organization is concerned
now they, have a golf tournament on the Saturday.
they have generally a show or an auction or something on Saturday night to help raise funds to cover the costs of such.
that's a neat idea.
get the community building there at Lake Texoma lodge,
everyone brings in food
for the Saturday night dinner they bring in Kentucky Fried Chicken from Durant,
it really, has worked out.
How many people, Jim, are involved?
generally, I think it's been as high as about a hundred and twenty people.
I think normal's about sixty or seventy.
I guess, ours probably isn't that big.
Our family is dwindling, for one thing.
Oh .
I often feel funny because I'm in a branch that's all but died
I just have one aunt and my family.
sometimes when these other families get together, they're really pulling in aunts and uncles and
we're kind of off on the sidelines.
it does remind us that we have family and roots.
we keep going even though we're not a real big part of it.
our family out my wife
I were the kids, the newlyweds, so to speak
our grandchildren are going now.
that's great.
it's, wound up that, we're the old folks now.
they have various organized,
they have generally a volleyball net set up and horseshoes, to pitch,
they organize a baseball game for the kids
several people bring boats,
there's a place take the kids up to the lodge and go swimming up there in the afternoon,
there's lots to do.
it's a full day.
Some of the people
come down on Friday afternoon and spend the whole weekend,
some just come in for Saturday
it, has worked out quite well,
it's a chance to see some of the relatives you don't see all year long
except that once a year.
that's true.
that's neat.
I they're really fun.
We go to mine regularly,
we go to my husband's occasionally down in Temple,
he has a large family,
fun when we go to that one.
my side of the family is from back in Ohio and West Virginia,
I think we've been to one in thirty five years or something like that,
That's just too far away.
is a problem with the distance.
The people that we have that don't come are out El Paso way
it's just too much for all of them,
It's an,
all of that group to travel.
all day drive just to get to this area.
then we have the same attitude when it's out,
there, although this year we're going out.
They're going to have it at Fort Davis
we thought that would be fun to kind of tie it in as a vacation time
as well as reunion.
we have,
each year, of course, they elect officers of the family reunion
a number of years ago, back in the early eighties, my wife was president.
We discovered how much work it is just to organize and get it together.
it takes a lot of planning,
And choose,
and assembling of stuff.
some place that everybody's going to like
as far as food and all that .
That's correct.
That's a heavy burden.
it is,
I tell you.
I don't really care for her to be president again.
No .
a lot of work,
it's a lot of fun.
We've enjoyed it,
I think,
the grandkids really enjoy it because it's the only time of the year they see all their cousins from Oklahoma.
good for kids to know that they have other family.
this year they're all excited.
The show this weekend,
this weekend's going to be a rock and roll show
my two grandsons and one of their cousins going to dress up and lip sing to a rock song
what fun.
in jeans and t shirts and such.
going to be exciting for them, and for us too.
Probably lots of laughs.
there have been some really wild shows put on there.
They, really get, into it.
it sounds like you really have a good structure and have it going along.
is still kind of loosely organized,
the same people usually get stuck with doing it.
that generally happens.
they do it as a labor of love.
the officer idea is a good idea.
we've, had various things over the years, to raise funds for it
again, cheap to rent the lodge up there
or the meeting room down in the cabins and such,
huh .
they've come up with,
they've tried passing the hat,
they've had auctions and various things to raise funds,
some people do
some people don't .
it's not fair that everybody not contribute,
anyway, that's the family reunion story.
thanks a lot I enjoyed talking to you.
Been nice talking to you.
All right.
I am, the product of, I think as much the changing roles of women as anyone,
my mother,
we come from a,
my mother and I were, really, first generation divorce in our family.
My, mother was divorced in nineteen, fifty seven,
when I was seven years old.
the first one, of anyone anyone had ever known, to have a divorce.
Of course, now fifty percent divorces in the United States,
my mother, was treated very badly, lot of especially from my father's side of the family,
also, we were,
ostracized by his family, basically kind of dropped off the face of the earth.
they all felt that was never an issue that my father cause of the reason for the split up, even though he had impregnated another woman and forced the divorce.
it was always my mother's fault, she was not, sufficient, she just was not good enough.
What was wrong with her, was she not attractive enough, did she not take good enough care of her man to keep his interest.
It was that kind of an attitude.
too bad.
it was too bad,
it was really rough.
that's sad.
It really is.
D you know, that's so changing,
some of the changing roles of women in that respect, I have been a product of.
I think that there are people
first generation going to college in my family.
first, my mother had always had a quote career, but always a career as secretarial position.
She did rise to the highest position that a woman could rise to in a secretarial in Des Moines, Iowa.
She was a secretary
it was a lifetime appointment for her as well as for him.
that was a really status position.
that's wonderful.
She made over thirty thousand,
That speaks,
a year.
well of your mother.
she a real hard la ,
She had high standards.
hard driving lady with a steel rod up her back,
bless her heart.
I went to college and now since have completed two masters degrees
I am the director of music in a church.
it's interestingly enough, I am still, everyday, confronted with,
Challenges that have to do with my sex.
for instance, I am just not taken as seriously,
at professions, who are doing the same job I do.
the choir members treat me differently because I am a woman, they expect me to be more motherly,
they question my authority more, than they ever would a man.
I have experience with this, because I work at as a director of music and also as an associate under a man.
cons , I am pretty aware of what goes on
in the church.
I am done talking.
Do you want to talk? .
I think that you carried forth your subject matter very well, Nickie.
I can, relate to that,
I think the image that the woman has and, in the world,
as, the lesser of the two.
I think things are changing,
the changing is taking a long time longer than we would like it to,
like it to take.
I think we are progressing at a snail's pace,
we are progressing.
that's the main point is that we are going ahead.
I think that, in the long term that women are going to be able to have the recognition that they deserve.
men, come around and have seen,
the error of their ways.
there are a lot of die hards out there that will never change.
we have to, face that reality also.
I have never been able to figure out why they can not ever change, why they can not bend. why they can not just accept, competent women,
have never been able to understand that.
I guess it's fear .
what )) ,
It could be, if sure of themselves.
The one's that, go along with that, they are sure of themselves.
they know that they can, be on the same level.
they do not have any, ego, problems that they are fighting.
I think that we are going to be, on par with them
in salary and in recognition,
in the long term.
would like to see happen futuristically,
is what we are discussing,
is that yes, we each have our, jobs in life,
and that we should recognize that. And that we should support each other.
I think our problems would be fewer,
if we supported each other.
And just looked at each other as equals and none lesser, because we are equal.
Men have a lot of trouble with that though.
They, own peer relationships, they do not treat themselves equal,
it's really difficult for them to treat women as equals.
really much more comfortable with somebody being the boss and somebody being the follower.
that they are more comfortable that way.
I do not know if it's a militaristic point of view I guess,
somebody can not be colonel
everybody else is infantry,
it's just really interesting to me.
I am married to a wonderful man,
who treats me
I think probably is as enlightened as anyone can be at this particular stage in their life time.
when he gets angry, it's always over control issues, it's always over power issues, it's never over, it's always, you said you were going to do something
you did not do it. As if he is the boss
the slave.
those are the issues we ever fight about.
difficult for men accept women equally,
even if they want to, they are more comfortable when somebody is the boss .
are real efficient.
I guess we would have to go back to the way that the Lord made us.
the women when they are married, they are to be subjective to their husbands.
I believe that strongly.
I think that they should be in harmony with what they are, with what the subject matter is.
I think the issue should be settled before there's a conflict.
I think that can happen in a very way.
if we, men and women, would do as the Bible said, that we would esteem each other higher than ourselves.
Can you picture that?
if your husband did that to you,
you did that to your husband,
you would always be trying to please each other and not yourself.
it's true.
that's really divine answer,
the right answer .
that would be a beautiful relationship.
it would be.
I think there are some people that have done that,
I have seen it.
just marvelous,
I am just in awe to see this,
I don't,
I am only twenty eight
I haven't had much experience with nursing homes.
visited any of them
I don't think I've ever even been in one.
Have you?
I've been in them but, just visiting
we used to g , when we were our (( teen ages ))
we'd go on Sundays and visit, the older people.
I have an elderly grandma that lives with us.
she's lived with us for five years.
I kind of know decide if you want to put somebody in a rest home
had those discussions, about should we put her in because she's pretty senile
takes a lot of care
twenty four hours a day someone,
has to be,
It's rea ,
there's someone in fiancee's family.
His grandmother too and they're, her son, his uncle, whatever,
he's recently retired
he's the one who she moved in with when she had a stroke
all the other children are working or whatever.
They're all my parents age.
he's got, his retirement though is really twenty four hours a day.
They have a day care two days a week.
They call it senior citizen day care.
she goes in the senior citizen center.
gets a break two days a week
it's only for like two or three hours at a time.
just, you see a lot of things like (( )) was a great golfer and wanted to play golf when he retired,
you know that a lot of the things he thought he would do when he retired he's not able to do now.
he refuses to consider any other,
I don't,
To put her in a rest home?
is that how your parents feel
it's more my grandma that feels that way.
She says that when her husband died that he would never put her in a rest home.
it's kind of,
I don't know.
think my parents would
she is getting pretty bad
she has to have a little toilet right by her bed
my mom has to take care of her pretty much
it gets,
I don't know.
a hard decision,
I don't think I would do it to my parents personally .
I know at this,
I know I feel like I would never do that with my parents either,
really feel bad for the people I see th , not very,
I'm not experienced
like I said I just have that one family,
I just really feel bad for the guy who his whole life is different now
than he thought it would be.
When he retired?
he's got, seven brothers and sisters
he's the one because he's the one that isn't going to work every day and that she moved in with when she needed to move in with someone.
it's like that (( good )) for us just because my uncle mom switch off like we have her for three months
he has her for three months.
that's great.
That's a good idea.
We ought to,
that works out good.
maybe when the other brothers and sisters retire or whatever, I don't know what they're going to do.
It's really not my family.
It's my fiancee's
say much.
I always feel like I would never put my parents in either
I wonder, I'm going to be the only sibling that isn't going to have children
if my parents do need to live with someone, it will probably be with me because all my brothers and sisters will be having teenagers around and everything to care for.
that's fine with me.
both figure that's what's, we're going to end up with both of the parents or whoever.
If the ,
You know what I mean?
We feel like,
it's our responsibility,
I feel like I would never put them in a home.
I wonder how much, if one of us is going to have to quit work someday or retire early or something.
You think about it
it's really,
I don't know.
This country kind of takes the worst care of the elderly of any other country.
You think?
I'm not really familiar with how other countries,
It's really more of respect issue that the people in other countries that I've been to seem to really have a lot more respect for the elderly people
they really (( seem )) as wise
in this country nobody really,
They're seen as senile .
nobody really pays attention
the old timer made with the old way
nobody respects the traditions.
it's I,
I'm not saying that I do either
it's just funny
we really don't have any that don't have the Social Security
everything really isn't that much
for elderly people to live on.
even if they're in good health it's incredible.
They don't have any,
they don't get special treatment and maybe they should,
because we're all going to get old someday.
I know.
depressing topic though.
How old are you?
I'm twenty.
rough for you too to see your grandmother.
(( )) .
it really is
drives us craz ,
Why don't you go ahead and say what you feel,
I'll respond.
All right.
very guilty not doing my part with recycling, I'm afraid.
We, recently moved here from North Carolina,
they had curbside recycling,
it was very easy put everything out there,
we don't have it our neighborhood right now
I've been very guilty about not making the effort they belong.
how long have you been here?
we've been here since January,
still feel very new,
it's working up to a year now,
I guess we're old timers compared to some people.
I think that's a good excuse.
You need to get into the
the system a little more and know where to take things.
We've been here probably two and a half years,
we didn't recycle at all before we came
I think we're doing well.
save most of our aluminum cans and glass
and newspaper right now.
where do you take those things?
the, glass and the newspaper we usually take to Walmart.
we usually save up our cans change them in for money.
where do you do that,
we've been saving cans for my daughter's choir
I didn't know where to take them.
there's a place on Parker Road,
it's just over the overpass before you get to K Mart.
I think there's service station there.
There's usually a semi truck that has person there that will weigh them
Now they aren't worth much right now,
it's better than nothing ,
Better than nothing,
what I hear a lot of neighborhoods do have pickup now,
be getting them in the month of October.
it seems like ever since we've moved here we've been hearing that,
it's coming in a couple of months,
I think it's been delayed.
I think it was originally scheduled for February,
the trucks that were supposed to do it, there's been some problems with
from what I've read in, the mail that we get
I can't wait for that,
that will be easy.
I get tired of newspaper littering the garage .
it gets to be a bit much to haul it off,
I feel guilty we don't recycle milk containers because they seem like a big waste.
they're a lot of bulk, anyway
they fill up the whole kitchen garbage can
I'll be glad when the bins do come,
I think that's when start doing the plastic, too.
it was real easy with the bins,
it really was,
it was just no effort at all, no more trouble than taking out the garbage,
I've gotten used to washing salad dressing bottles and
things like that,
it's not that big of a deal,
it's nicer to just throw them out,
we can do our part
take an extra minute or two.
how much do you earn on the cans,
didn't know kind of an idea to give her for,
when we first here, it was like we'd take maybe grocery sack full or
maybe two grocery sacks full,
it would be like two dollars
since last time we've gotten more like a dollar.
it's gone down.
which is understandable,
I think, more people are
are recycling.
That's something don't really make any effort to,
whatever pop we drink, we used to take the boys out for a bike ride, and pick up the litter, cans
that was kind of fun,
we haven't done that for a long time
that sounds like a pretty good project.
the boys think it's fun, plus you get your exercise
you do get to stop once in a while when there is a can to rest ,
I'll have to keep myself on it.
My neighbor across the street, is so careful about recycling,
I keep telling myself, get it organized,
they'll beat me do the city wide first.
hopefully the bins will be here in this month
that will spur you on,
I won't have any excuse then,
that's for sure.
All right, it sounds like we're doing our part and at least starting,
Thinking about it, anyway .
that's all you can do
have you,
do they time this thing for us,
do we,
you can do it as long as you want.
if it's been long enough, five minutes when they cut in and we don't have any more room for recording .
You can't chat all day, .
we can say good bye now.
It was good talking to you,
maybe we'll get on line again.
Thanks, Sherry.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
do you have any pets?
I do.
I have a dog named Grisly, who's a ten year old, mixed breed between Golden Retriever, Afghan Hound and Chow.
I have a pair of box turtles.
I used to have box turtles, years ago, when I was growing up
really like them.
I do, too.
Lucky and Spot, that's their names
they live in an aquarium without water in my family room,
my dog thinks he's a mother turtle,
and always has his nose all around my turtle box,
do you have any pets now?
we have one dog, a Bichon Frise.
our friends in Houston bred the dogs.
I had never heard of them
I haven't either.
all white
they're small, fluffy,
they don't shed.
I guess they're distantly related to a poodle,
they're not very well known in this country,
they're not, high strung or over bred
how big do they get.
Ours is, on the small end,
she's about ten pounds,
they range from probably ten to sixteen pounds
that's interesting.
they love people, and kids
that was something we were looking for,
love is Golden Retrievers,
that's what we had intended to get in Houston,
we had a small yard and a pool
knowing how they love to dig
Ye ,
the water,
and love the water, we thought that was kind of a tough climate
we ended up getting this,
my son would rather have a Golden Retriever, though, I think
now he wants good size dog .
we've got a good size dog,
we were considering getting a puppy, a small house, lap top dog for him, because he likes other animals and because we used to have a miniature Dachshund,
I miss
having a little one
The kind you have sounds very interesting, though.
sweet dogs.
thought probably our neighborhood in Houston had more of this breed than any other place just because of, the family that had them bred them.
They had five litters of puppies,
a lot of them stayed in the neighborhood
how do you spell that breed?
It's B I C H O N F R I S E.
F R I S E.
how do you pronounce that?
Bichon Frise.
I'm writing it out phonetically,
they don't shed
good dogs for people
they love people,
Do they bark a lot?
not really.
barks more some, because she spent a lot of time at our friends house.
We used to swap back and forth dogs.
(( )) they have three dogs.
They had a Cockapoo, two Bichons
she didn't bark at all until she spent time there
now it's funny.
a good watch dog
if there's, she'll bark that way,
she also talks a lot,
has a definite personality
if we're leaving her, she barks at us, because
she doesn't want to be left.
Does she ever mess in the house?
very smart dogs.
The circuses in Europe used to use them
for the acts.
on their hind legs each
they're very easy to train
about how much are they?
they range,
I'd noticed up here they're a lot more expensive it seemed to me from the ads in the paper.
They run anywhere from two hundred to four hundred dollars, I think
how about the,
which I thought was a lot.
how about the person in, Houston?
she's no longer breeding them
her dogs, second one that she has was one of the puppies from the litter,
the one male that she used had a tooth problem
she only bred that dog once because it had
the tooth problem, and did them strictly as, pets,
Just pets,
they show quality.
that's what we'd rather have is just a pet, instead of
Ri ,
we used to show Saint Bernards when I was a little girl.
We did that every weekend,
takes a lot of time.
it's very expensive.
she might have some contacts here,
that the dog's grandmother, was from Plano,
that's where I live,
that's where I live, too.
I'm at Coit and Legacy ...
what do you think about it?
I found it interesting that they started off with a problems of immigration in America and then went back and said, if there is a problem,
Right .
what should we do about it?
I guess that's so.
Do you feel there's a problem with immigration in America?
I think there's some problems,
they're not really big ones.
I think that, in general the whole immigration policy isn't quite as open as it should be.
That it's really pretty hard for people from other countries to get in here even if they're educated and will be a good asset to America.
It's often hard for them to get in and get on the track towards citizenship unless they marry a citizen or something like that.
That's interesting.
wondering what your response would be.
I'm a first generation American.
where did you come from?
from immigrant parents .
Or an immigrant mother anyway.
where did your parents come from?
that was, prior to World War Two.
it's interesting that, with the topic I think I agree with you.
There needs to be more of an open policy.
we have to remember the Chinese came here and were our labor, for the
our Irish came and, built the towns and,
did labor.
what do you think,
are you from Texas
I'm from Pennsylvania.
that will be interesting.
we have just,
a lot of,
had a Naturalization Act where the Mexicans that were residents in Texas,
have become citizens now.
What do you think about that?
I think that's all right.
at least on the surface it sounds like a good thing.
Do you have an opinion about it?
I agree with it wholeheartedly.
The only thing is I've got to share with you, my background is from New Jersey.
when you were giving your answer I was thinking, is this a Texan I'm talking to? .
Texan philosophy is a little different.
a lot of the experience that I have with this problem has to do with my brother in law who's Chinese and immigrated from China.
he, got a green card in good standing in America and China, but only because he was always (( )) nice to the Chinese government,
and all that,
he was always on pretty good terms with them.
my sister just had a baby
they're trying to get permission for his mother to come to America to help care for the kid and that sort of thing.
it's turned out to be sort of a horrible problem.
It's just very difficult to get a woman who doesn't have a lot of assets or whatever out of China even temporarily to visit here.
then you have first in the experience on immigration.
that is interesting.
I wonder, even with those that were involved with Tienamen's Square.
did we really protect them?
pretty crazy,
because those students who were in America when that was happening are almost certainly going to be in trouble if they go back,
aside for that, they're the best and brightest of China
it's certainly in our best selfish interest to keep them here if we can.
That is true.
That is true.
what do you think about,
we have in Texas a large Vietnamese population
that has been brought in.
What do you think about that?
these are not the brightest.
these are refujees, you mean?
we're talking boat people.
We have a lot of boat people in Texas.
I don't have any problem with that.
You're a true liberal heart to heart.
Good for you.
I guess so .
I was ready for a fight on this one .
I agree because,
interesting, daughter was in high school, one of the custodians was Vietnamese
with his limited English they found out, that, she was in student council,
they found out that he was a medical doctor,
All right,
we started recording already?
I guess,
I don't know.
It's the first time I've made a phone call on it.
you pressed one?
I guess we're supposed to start talking.
, what kind of books do you read?
I read, a lot of Steven King, Dean R Koontz,
some Danielle Steel.
My aunt got me hooked on those .
it's mostly all novels?
they're all novels.
I'll read some, classic, too.
like what?
like (( THE GRADUATE )) by Steinbeck.
I like that.
I like Steinbeck a lot.
ROSE FAMILY by Faulkner. That's one of my favorites.
I have never read a lot of Faulkner.
is more of a play or something it was from, I saw
I read the book from that.
cool .
by the way, my name's Bill.
I'm from North Carolina .
I'm Doug,
I'm from Pennsylvania.
let's see.
What kind of books do you like to read?
a bunch of stuff, I guess, fair number of novels, but mostly shorter ones.
I don't really like the, six hundred page long Stephen King novels and all that.
I really have to be in the mood.
read one, like maybe once a year.
I'm not as,
Richard Broudigan a lot.
I've never read anything by him.
dead now,
he was really a pretty amazing writer.
He wrote books that were, pretty short and pretty easy to read, written at a third grade level or whatever.
they were still very heavy and philosophical, also very funny.
He wrote TROUT FISHING IN AMERICA
I read a lot of non fiction books, too.
let's see,
I like to read a lot of non fiction history when
Civil War era that kind of thing.
I found that real interesting.
I'm reading THE LION AND THE WIND right now.
that was on T V.
Now what's that?
It was, during Teddy Roosevelt's time.
And, about a American woman that got kidnapped in, Morocco.
this is when they were having their revolution
or whatever
Teddy Roosevelt sent troops over and really portrays him as a, kind of a crazy man,
Yeah .
Surprised me.
I had no idea that he was like that.
just like one quote that he had was that he thought the America's emblem was stupid because it was an eagle,
it should be a grizzly bear because
sh , .
the grizzly and stuff like that.
I saw the movie
that's what made me want to read the book.
Candice Bergen was in the movie.
I'm a real big fan of hers
I also read a lot of books about music because I'm interested in that and fair number of stuff about science and also philosophy things.
to read
some of the philosophy stuff.
let's see,
even like reading some new age things, things that I don't quite believe in,
here on my shelf I have a book called JOURNEYS OUT OF THE BODY.
I think that,
It's all about
I'm fascinated by that.
how to have out of body experiences and all that.
I'm fascinated by that.
even stuff about, not like ghost stories, but real encounters with ghosts and
supposedly haunted houses.
I like,
I'm kind of a doubting Thomas
I like to read stuff like that.
Some of it really
freaks me out .
huh .
definitely .
some self help books
I read DIANETICS I got past all the gibberish on it.
did you like it?
It was okay.
it, it took me a while to really get into it.
didn't help me that much .
I see.
I think once you're set in your ways, you're set in your ways.
Yeah .
then I,
one book I read recently was, when I was looking for a job,
I read, HOW TO GET THE JOB THAT YOU WANTED
had real good tips
I got the job that I wanted by applying methods
you want to go ahead and tell me your favorite team, or who you think will be doing well this year.
where I'm from the Atlantic coast conference is a very big conference
course, we have Duke University that was the national champions last year,
I'm kind of hoping that they'll repeat again this year.
They have a lot of the same players back.
Are we talking about, is this the N B A?
this is college
This is college,
College, okay .
We have like Carolina, and Duke, and Georgia Tech, and N C State, teams that are normally ranked in the top twenty.
hopefully we'll have a good year.
I don't really follow the N B A very closely.
that's probably I saw.
have moved in the last couple years from Utah to Texas
there's so many colleges and universities in Texas, we haven't really followed them too much
none of them are alma mater
, that seems to help.
Do you like professional basketball?
follow it especially around the playoffs,
course, I was real familiar with the Utah Jazz,
the Mailman or Karl Malone was, pretty big thing
the Lakers have always been amazing to watch.
did keep track a little bit of the Mavericks.
They've not had any good seasons for a long time,
and have a lot of problems Tarpley
maybe now that that's over come out of it
that's an up and coming team, though.
I hope they do something.
They need to
they're not going to have any of the team left at all.
That's somebody you can get behind and,
be patient.
Kind of like the Cowboys , I guess.
they seem to be kind of not having a very good few seasons.
they, coming out of it this year.
We'll see if it's held on.
I think Chicago will probably with the N B A again.
The Bulls?
They'll probably be pretty good.
Course, the Celtics are always good, too, with their players.
That's true.
Be interesting to see how the Olympics does this year with all N B A players playing on the Olympic team.
That's true,
it will be interesting.
It will certainly be different .
I don't know,
how close I'll follow them, though.
the season hasn't started yet.
I'm usually more the end of the season person,
we need to talk about baseball
my Atlanta Braves.
I really do,
the basketball season's supposed to start in the next couple of weeks.
It's a long season.
that's why I've,
I guess my mind went blank.
It's like last season was so long ago
I haven't really even started thinking about basketball yet
this wasn't a good subject,
It's a little early.
We'll see how our predictions come true.
We definitely will.
it's good talking to you.
Good to talk to you.
All righty,
Bye bye.
I guess my personal opinion, don't mind paying taxes necessarily.
just sometimes wonder if our money is being used in the best way.
sometimes when I hear they're, the politicians are making, when they're getting a hundred and fifty thousand plus benefits and that, I think that's just a bit too much to be paying them,
that's all tax money.
When you figure out how many politicians and each one getting that much, it's just billions of dollars
that's, I think is just being thrown away.
when you read about that they're spending all the money on, these studies that have no relevance whatsoever, that kind of ticks you off, too.
was telling me the other day that they heard some senator say that what we're paying, it's not that we mind paying taxes, it's that we're paying too much for a lousy government.
I tend to agree with that .
I'm not really into what they're doing
per se,
I think there's just levels of bureaucracy.
I think it managed by levels.
I know any time a big, budget cut,
I work with the state,
any time a budget cut or crunches, it's always the small guy gets hurt.
It's never person that's making a hundred thousand there.
It's always the person that's making the least amount,
sometimes we're running around there.
I see supervisors running around, having meetings.
really don't know what they do.
I sometimes wonder, they really doing anything,
I think we're going to see a streamlining in the government.
don't know what kind of, I don't know level, or long it will take for, saying, Hey, this is too much. We're not going to pay any more. we're not going to pay for this,
you're out,
I think we're starting to see it a little bit now,
I think, I don't know kind of input we're going to get from the public and how they're going to go about doing it.
we're just getting taxed way too much.
right now we're getting taxed around thirty five percent, or more.
that's me not making a whole lot of money.
they got so many hidden taxes, that it's really hard to figure out how much you are paying, because, go to a grocery store, something like that, and you're paying a little tax here
Gas, I don't know about you guys,
there's probably at least about twenty five thirty cents of different taxes our gas.
you don't realize,
we got a sales tax.
Our sales tax is like eight percent,
I don't know what our gas tax is.
I think it's somewhere around twenty five cents a gallon.
they're hitting us up,
they may not raise it, federally as much one year,
then they'll raise it somewhere in the state or the sales tax or property tax or whatever.
It's just, you can see that you're money is just not going that far.
I know no new taxes,
they changed the, deductions on you,
that just raises your taxes, they just get it a different way
to me, it did, raise my taxes.
you could tell how much money you have left over,
all of a sudden, I don't know , eating me alive.
I heard someone say that, if they would just, something about with defense budget, all that extra money they're throwing back, if they cut back by so much percentage, it could throw back about six hundred dollars, on an average, six hundred dollars,
I'll let you start this time.
how much do you like lawn and garden work?
even though it's totally out of degree training, I've been working in the horticultural aspect,
the last, I don't know, fifteen, twenty years,
for goodness sakes.
What do you do?
I work for the state a grounds keeper.
that's interesting.
at this time of the year are you doing much garden work? .
mostly snow removal,
which we've had a lot of,
I don't know,
guess, growing up on the farm that, always had a big interest,
area to do, always had a big garden
and enjoy working on lawns everything.
, I love to work outside, really,
I enjoy flowers and stuff.
I don't do a whole lot of it, at this exact point in my life, because I have two teenage boys,
they do all the lawn
all the lawn care ,
I still take care of the, flower beds and things like that.
I was even planning to go out and to, dig up some hibiscus plants that will not make it through the winter here, but, were planted in the ground since last spring
I was going to dig them up for a friend and for some starters for me,
lo and behold, about five days ago, we had a freeze down to about, twenty three degrees or something
the hibi ,
that's terrible.
Twenty three de ,
hibiscus plants no longer exist .
I really feel bad about it,
it's a plant that we've had for probably twenty five years that these
were cuttings off of,
they're all gone at this point.
Gardening in Texas is really interesting, though.
I grew up in Illinois
Texas is just so hot in the summer and so dry,
why, everyone that lives in town and has yards practically has watering system.
with that, why, our lawns do stay, pretty nice all summer, if you water.
in the winter, we have Bermuda grass
in the winter it turns as brown as a grocery sack
I just think it's ugly .
When I go back home to my parents in Illinois in the winter, their grass is fairly green.
that's aspect of a lot of those grasses, they go dormant.
I think the Saint Augustine and, Centipede grass is another one you have quite a bit of down there
those two.
Some people have, I think it's fescue
that stays green all winter,
they really have a heck of a time keeping it going in the middle of the summer.
They have to water an incredible amount.
look nice during the winter,
they almost stick out like sore thumb, a pretty thumb.
when you look at the neighborhoods they're all brown except the one,
it's sort of like, .
I know my folks live, in Arizona there,
they just grow rocks
(( )) .
That's their gardening there. I guess as long as you can have, some grass there.
I know I was in, Houston when I was working for a company once,
we were taking care of lawns out there,
that particular year they had just tons of rain,
it was raining continuously.
I know with all that moisture, a lot of the lawns get a lot of disease problems.
that's true.
Houston is wetter area,
that's where Plano is,
just humidity
just all the time, it's an awfully lot more humid.
you, able to get, sometimes a double crops certain things in your garden?
I think people do.
I don't have a vegetable garden,
here, actually,
we have Neil Sperry talks on the radio,
what do you guys having up there?
I haven't been up there since, forty eight, I guess .
Forty eight.
That's a long time.
it wasn't forty eight,
let's see, it was forty eight.
I was in the Air Force.
We did an air show Boone Greene, out at,
what's it been like up there?
for the past week or two it's been cold and wet
before that, for most of the year, it's been hot and dry.
like September was hot and dry,
September really was,
I'm not sure about October.
I think for about twelve months through September average temperature has been higher than normal
each month.
lots of ninety degree days during the summer.
It really has been strange here this year,
has been a different year in more ways than one.
somebody said, you're either a stranger or a fool to try to predict Texas weather,
always, they were saying it was going to be the hottest summer ever,
we had all this rain,
it really is not a bad summer at all, really cool.
all of a sudden, in October it got real hot and dry and just stayed that way for a long time.
then the end of October it started rain almost a week without stopping, just pouring down,
There were flash floods everywhere, that kind of deal,
into of November, week, the first week actually, a freeze,
first frost is like the fifteenth of November here
if you had it early.
usually it's not until later .
It's really strange.
I think we usually have a frost in October.
We really need the rain that we've been getting,
it has not today,
the last few days it's pouring most of the day.
is it flooding anywhere?
Flooding anywhere.
I have not heard of flooding anywhere,
that's occurred certainly at times in the past,
I've not heard of any particular problems this time.
It's just kind of, clou ,
we're supposed to have a chance to get some rain the next couple of days here, which will be, a little bit more typical, autumn weather. But really it's strange.
We haven't really had an autumn.
It's like we went into winter
the poor trees, said what ,
we had (( )) summer lasting long
then it became winter like,
sort of change to warmer to sort of more typical autumn day.
there, you,
usually there's,
I have a farm a hundred miles east of here in East Texas,
all these huge trees just like the eastern hard wood belt all the way up to Maine,
it's that same trees, pines hard woods,
hickories and oaks and stuff,
I was up there last weekend,
there are trees still have their leaves on,
they're green,
they're dead .
freeze just got them.
(( )) .
weren't ready for it at all apparently,
we haven't had a typical fall at all.
Not much color, changes have occurred at all.
Really weird this year.
I'm not sure means.
I don't know.
our leaves all the ground now.
I think it was an especially good winter for fall colors.
all actually had some color,
It kind of crept in
did, for a time.
it's usually beautiful up there isn't it?
I think you could drive along in Maryland and look at the sweet gum trees on each side pines and what not,
be driving along in East Texas and looks just the same.
It's almost, identical kind of country.
Been that this year
for the trees
for the leaves.
there cutting some firewood this weekend,
oak tree that was dead, and cut it up and split it (( )) .
that's because can't tolerate a freeze this early.
Is that right?
If it would came later it would be all right?
some trees
seem to be pretty hardy.
nothing bothers them.
Their leaves are still green,
that have lost their leaves.
what I notice mostly is the red maples, that the leaves are just dead, the dogwoods they got, bit on the ends of the leaves a little bit,
they still look pretty good.
It just depends on the tree.
it's not often you get, many women interested in football .
Do you follow football very much?
I'm sorry, what?
Do you follow football very much?
I don't,
I haven't recently,
we can talk about something else.
Do you have any,
you married?
I'm not,
I guess kids are out.
What's that?
Kids are out.
Yep .
Are you married?
Got two boys.
do you like football?
I follow Cowboys
that's about it,
same here .
Do you live in Dallas?
I am a pretty big Dallas fan, been for a long time
I haven't been to any games recently.
I try to catch the game every weekend that I can.
Have you ever been to a Cowboy's game?
I haven't,
it's pretty nice.
just to watch them at home .
That's good.
At least you, follow the game a little bit.
I'm not a fanatic about it.
I don't know who played when and who does what like some guys are.
I just like to watch,
hopefully they win .
That's about the extent of it.
Right now I'm in, college,
I'm more into college football than professional, I think.
I see.
What, school are you going to?
I'm at B Y U.
B Y U,
Leslie, what are you studying?
My mom's an L V N.
what are you planning to go into?
Do you want to be an R N
I haven't really picked a field.
don't know, I've thought a lot about labor and delivery
I don't know.
Try that.
That's what my mom does, labor and delivery.
she loves it.
really, enjoys.
Is she a nurse in Dallas?
she's a nurse in San Antonio
working late shift.
She works graveyard's what you'd call it.
She works the graveyard shift.
she's worked that for, years, when I was small.
I guess probably going on twenty years now.
she really enjoys it.
She likes the quiet that you have at that time of the night
a new job at a different hospital, closer to where she lives
she's really enjoying herself.
She really likes it.
that's great.
good luck to you in pursuing your nursing degree.
thanks .
Hope you'll like it.
Do you plan on staying the Dallas area?
I'd like to come back to Dallas.
Right now I'm in Utah, of course.
huh .
my family's there,
I'd like to go back.
I think Texas, San Antonio in particular, has got a large, base of hospitals.
I don't know about Dallas.
I think Dallas is pretty scattered.
Are you in San Antonio?
in Dallas
I'm originally from San Antonio
they've got large medical, center down there.
They've got the U T Health Science Center out there also.
if ever wanted, pursue anything more than your nursing degree, be the place to do it.
my brother in law, is in the medical profession, he's at medical in San Antonio right now.
like I said, good luck to you.
All right,
take care,
maybe we'll meet up again some time.
All right.
Bye bye.
My name is, Donna Donahue,
I live in Plano, Texas.
My name is Lowell,
I live in Raleigh, North Carolina.
do you want to start
should I start?
Go right ahead.
I would say that our home is a very typical home for the area that we live in.
We have, three children,
they attend the public school here and are very active in a lot of the sports, soccer and baseball
my little girl goes to tap dance,
my little one goes to preschool
I'm home with the children, just do a lot of running around.
It seems like a lot of my neighbors kind of have a similar type, I don't know, life.
what about you? .
live in a town home
here in Raleigh,
it's pretty typical of the other town homes in the area
have a lot of town homes here
as well as single family homes,
at the time that I bought this one it was just much better arrangement for me personally.
I'm not home a lot.
I travel a great deal with
my job,
it was easier to have a home that didn't
Was sort of maintenance free.
that somebody else looks out for the maintenance.
sounds, that sounds pretty good for
I know my husband takes an awful lot of time on the weekends, not so much now, but to, maintain the lawn and the edging and the flower beds,
it's a lot of work, owning a home with a little bit of property attached to it.
It certainly is.
sometimes I think, it would be nice to have a town home, with not having all that responsibility.
if you ever get one, be sure the walls are good and thick because if they're not you can hear.
was shopping for one,
I wanted to make sure hear my neighbors
that was
I bought one that's more like living in a,
once you're inside, you don't know you're in a town home.
that sounds lovely.
It is.
They're kind of built on a catty cornered instead of like side by side
you don't actually hear anybody next door to you.
your area then there's probably a lot of, career type people that have those type homes
the area that we're settled in is, definitely families kids.
They're still doing, a lot of building in the neighborhood.
the people that move here seem to move from all over the country, which we're from, the northeast,
seems like a people have any family around.
it, also gives you a common bond when you don't have a lot of relatives visiting your neighbors,
(( )) ,
we also in this area seem to have a lot of retirees
people who don't want the heat of Florida but don't want northeast
they settle sort of in between.
very wooded around where you are,
there lots of pretty trees and,
as a matter of fact very wooded.
how pretty.
It is nice.
I do miss that.
Around here in Plano there are very few trees
it's pretty flat kind of barren
that's the only thing that we don't like about living in Texas, is we miss all the beautiful trees and the Fall
the landscape is much different here in Texas than it is, in the north. or even where you are.
we definitely have a lot of trees here.
A lot of leaves to rake up too, I bet.
fortunately the home owner's association does all that.
Does that,
that's another plus.
I don't have to worry about that
this is the time of year we're starting to lose,
they're all falling now.
That's right,
that's right,
they are.
I'm going to get the kids to get outside with the other neighbor kids and do the little bit of raking that needs to be done.
We just have a few trees in the front and a few in the back but, much. a little kind of just in more of a make a little bit of a mess for a few weeks
if you didn't do anything about it, then they'd probably the leaves just blow away .
It's not too bad.
do we have to speak for a certain amount of time?
I don't think so.
It was really nice speaking to you.
It was good to speak with you too.
have a happy Thanksgiving.
Thank you,
you too.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
The way,
I'll go ahead and start
the way I work, the way I dress
for work is, this year, nineteen ninety one has been really suit and tie,
I shouldn't say suit, but coat and tie every day.
year ago, I changed jobs from being a researcher
to doing marketing for the research group.
different set of standards, I guess.
dress almost the same every day.
pretty much it's a white shirt and
slacks and shoes and
a coat.
it was very different before.
How do you dress?
I'm a drafter,
I just wear blue jeans and tennis shoes
I have sweatshirt on today.
that's pretty much the norm for me.
If I come a dress, everybody's shocked .
I understand.
They ask me, what are you doing in a dress
it's usually I haven't done my laundry lately .
Ran out of jeans .
I understand,
that's funny .
does it change?
Your dress,
I guess, do you have things like presentations to do or anything like that?
back in my old job, up until through nineteen eighty
I would usually wear blue jeans and pullover shirts and the like,
probably once a month or so, there was some reason that I would have to put on a suit.
For a customer presentation or something.
Every now and then I'll get dressed up and come in,
that's for my husband's job and not mine .
I see,
I understand.
I have to go to a business meeting once a month with him,
that's interesting.
Let's see, what else about this,
seems like T I is pretty cut and dried with or three levels.
upper management that always wears gray suits.
And the people that don't,
want to say don't have power or don't have authority or whatever
like I used to be in that research
I guess you are.
That we dress in the jeans
there's kind of branch manager level
or marketing people that kind of do that middle thing.
there's not much,
of the road.
It's nice that there's not a requirement
for it.
Sometimes I think there should be.
Some of these women around here look like they came off of Harry Hines.
right .
I guess you see those once in a while.
no shorts deal,
some of these mini skirts, are worse than shorts ever thought about being.
one of the things you got to put up with when you don't have a dress code.
That's right,
that's right.
I guess dress code, something about spaghetti straps,
I'm not even sure what they are.
Supposedly and backless things
all right.
I've seen those, too,
this wasn't necessarily a big conversation,
I think we,
we did it .
your name was Lisa.
Are you the Expressway sites?
I am,
I work in the north building.
thank you.
Thank you.
All right,
good day.
bye bye.
advice on son or daughter going to college.
that's advice that I will need in time future
for my children, rather than one that I have, personal experience with .
I suppose I would ask what the child wants to do in life and what the child hopes get out of college
and what sort of college would best those needs.
let's see,
went away to school, I'm trying to think my criteria.
I guess eighteen or so, it would be important to know if it was a coed college .
That was strict requirement for me.
again serious a person is according to, they want to get out of school, I guess they'd have to consider how expensive the college is and how close to home, if they could handle being away for real long periods of time or if they need to be somewhere where they can drive home when they needed to get home.
let's see,
what was the question,
the criteria for picking a college?
What advice
What advice.
would you give?
I guess one clear cut piece of advice is by all means visit the college campus.
stay in a dormitory if you can.
Go to classes,
talk to faculty members and students.
also, depending on how, adjustable your child would be, flexible, I guess it would be,
they chose a college in a different part of the country that maybe were unused to the way they run things,
northern colleges are very different than the southern colleges, I think.
The people are different
you have to be more flexible and more willing to, adjust to other people's mannerisms and customs or ways of doing things.
you have to be a flexible person to be able to go all the way across country to something totally different than what you're used to.
I'm thinking
You think so ?
problems my children might have in that,
I agree with you.
let's see,
what else.
climate would be,
you'd have to
is somewhat,
it's something different than the one they're used to, I guess,
if they're used to the northern weather then the southern weather they might kind of feel like they need to go out and play all the time, not be in studying . If you're in Florida or California.
also advise them that, if mom and dad paid for their college, that, if they decided to drop a course or decided that they need another year, then they'd have to get a loan to continue.
course (( )) is a big factor in having an understanding of how much parents will pay and how much has to come from other sources and you're willingness, one, work during the summer
That's right.
part time.
And take out loans to assume, debt after college.
responsibility of that.
work and earn money towards college.
Also if they stay within their state, you get a lot more financial aid
it's a lot cheaper if you stay within your state
than if you go out of state to a private school,
like I said, if they was willing to work, in the summers and also maybe then the parents could pay a third
then maybe they could take out a loan for a third depending on how expensive it is.
By the time, I have an eleven year old is my oldest,
it's not too far away,
Mine is twelve.
it's getting there,
we still put away the money for college now.
I would advise they did not have a car at college.
They would,
That's my gut feeling, too.
my son is certainly not persuaded of that .
I'm here.
I didn't have a car in college.
think it's more burden provide for.
I think so, too.
because most kids don't have a car at college, the ones that do get taken advantage of
trouble waiting to happen.
I would advise take a car
Is it,
they didn't take a television
they didn't take a refrigerator .
Maybe that,
I didn't do any of those, though,
feel less strongly about the T V s and refrigerators.
we didn't have,
let me see,
what have you seen lately?
CITY SLICKERS, and STAR TREK FIVE.
Yeah ,
Y ,
I thought I'd better see that one before I go and see six.
didn't need to.
I found that out .
How about yourself?
I just saw the latest one.
How is it?
It was fantastic.
I can't wait.
the lines in there were just perfect.
it was classic TREK.
does the old STAR TREK guys meet the new guys?
it's just the old guys still.
it was just a rumor that that would happen this time.
However, the rumor that it will time
You know, that I read in
that they said they weren't going to do anymore.
That was it.
except that the rumor that they still might,
it may not include the entire crew
it will be a next generation meets this generation .
I'm not sure what the difference in light years between the new generation and old guys was.
I think it's a hundred years.
Somewhere in that range.
Considering that Spock was on couple weeks ago
that's right.
and that very first episode of NEXT GENERATION, they had McCoy.
Is that right?
He was
a doctor
he was rear admiral, whatever,
he just kind of hobbled down the halls real slow.
Vulcans age a lot better .
he didn't look too bad, did he?
Matter of fact, he looks just as about as old and the, NEXT GENERATION as he does in the latest STAR TREK .
Imagine that.
that's amazing.
did they have some pretty good special effects?
excellent, excellent special effects.
I think the script was, just incredible compared to the last one.
bad, bad, bad .
you know why?
I don't.
William Shatner wrote it.
is that right?
even worse, he directed it.
Nimoy, he does a lot better.
didn't direct this one.
He produced this one .
he directed the one before, I think STAR TREK FOUR, something like that.
I think that was.
a real life Trekkie?
L ,
I think so .
I really like them.
wouldn't go so far as being a Trekkie,
I've gone to, one for real live Trek Convention
I saw James Doohan, the guy that plays, Scotty.
did you get to talk to him?
No .
It was
Not in a crowd like that.
It was like, want an autograph, want to stand in line for about four hours.
It was a pretty crowded place.
They have some good management principals in this NEW GENERATION.
kind of funny.
I, was reading in, a book. trying to think,
I can't quite remember the name of the book,
saying don't do STAR TREK management style.
they were referring to, Captain Kirk,
every time he left the Enterprise, everything went to hell.
nothing got righted until he got back up on the ship .
he kind of was a cowboy type, too.
Made all the decisions
Jean Luke does more of
committee type of management.
it's definitely a lot better . A lot more realistic really.
What other movies have you seen?
saw THE ADDAMS FAMILY last week.
how was that?
It was pretty good.
there were a few things different than the old series,
whole, it was pretty similar. And, a lot of fun.
Lots of little funny spots,
Did they have Thing
in fact, Thing has a role than he does in the series.
there is lots of areas where Thing saves the day.
he runs around a lot.
How did,
I've always wondered how he gets around.
just finger hopping.
he's in a box, right?
in fact, it's funny.
He never come in out of a box, I don't think.
he was just kind of walking around.
Didn't he used to?
Not really.
He was always
in the box before.
that's what I was thinking.
do you do any recycling?
we do here.
what do we recycle?
they have bins
they also have centers where you can take aluminum cans and, plastic bottles
I think that's all they have.
What about you guys?
there is a lot of things that you can recycle down here, although the only thing I guess I wind up recycling religiously is, aluminum cans.
couple of different
they're like unattended aluminum can smashers .
you can go up there redeem,
we've got one that gives you a penny a can,
if you,
Yeah .
For smashed cans?
you have to them in there unsmashed.
when you do that basically crushes them and then drops a penny down a little shoot.
hold on for just a minute?
I'm going to try pressing one again to make sure
that I pressed it hard enough because, just succeed .
Yeah .
anyways, you guys only get a penny a can.
when you buy canned drinks and stuff like that, do they charge you for the deposit?
you probably get charged like a nickel
or something like that.
it's like they charge you for the deposit,
when you turn in the cans unsmashed, you're just, reimbursed.
Type of thing.
they don't charge us that extra nickel.
That's sort of nice, though .
really is.
Really what happens is we just get a penny a can back price, if you want to think of it that way.
when we get a twelve pack, then that's twelve cents back.
you guys can actually get ahead .
Yeah .
they have sort of things that reimbursed for or paid for.
we can recycle, clear glass, brown glass, green glass.
milk jugs and, newspapers,
everyone does newspapers.
everybody does newspapers.
kind of stuff.
said they can't be smashed or else,
it doesn't fit in their little containers
they're not reimbursed by people who are over them or something.
shoot, maybe what we ought to do is start sending unsmashed, Pepsi cans and whatever
Yeah .
up there .
send it to this address,
no .
let's see,
they said that, can encourage recycling,
I tell you really works, at least down here is, money basically to take care of the gas to recycle it, then people tend to do it.
In other words, taking care of the environment all well and good
if it's going to cost you to take care of the environment, they're not quite as,
As likely to do it.
likely to do it
as you get something back for it.
that's true.
if there are some energy savings or if there is some significant savings, anything that they can pass on to the consumer, it kind of reminds me of using an A T M card, to get money
or doing your banking.
if it's free, people will use it,
if it costs them something, then they're not as likely to use it.
You know.
I know we had a problem down here with, out of their cars
and just putting it down the drain sewer.
all that, because there was,
apparently a lot of people, every time they change the oil,
they just dump all their old oil down there.
Now they're starting to recycle that stuff.
that's good.
another thing I thought of, I guess, to recycle would be like clothes, because everybody gets rid of their clothes sometime or other.
one way that we do it sort of Iowa is that we can take some of our clothes to the consignment shops.
that way, you don't get near enough much as you bought it for,
got the use out of it
what you're going to basically donate to a Goodwill or whatever, anyways, you can get a little bit of money for.
that's something that I've never,
new to Iowa
that's something that I hadn't, looked into before.
that's one way to sort of get money and still recycle, I guess.
I know a lot of places, they,
I guess we're ready to start.
I guess, country do you live in?
I'm in Dallas, Texas.
What about yourself?
I'm also in Dallas.
The reason that I ask is the two conversations I've had, have been out of state.
have you always lived here in Dallas
I've lived here for almost five years now.
I see.
I'm a,
before that I was at school in Rochester, New York
I'm originally from Boston.
you are seeing quite a different climate and quite a different neighborhood.
That's right,
I like it.
You probably have enjoyed getting away from the snow.
I missed it at first,
now I go back there
I'm a real wimp about the cold .
I like it here.
It's nice.
that's good.
have lived in Texas essentially all my life.
Around in Texas
I have traveled up in the northeast and around and have enjoyed it.
I don't know,
I'm not sure I would want to take on those winters.
I know.
getting older and, not sure that's something I want to do.
I live, over in the Lake Highlands area if you're familiar with that.
tell me where that is,
I probably do know,
I don't know it by that name.
This is pretty well where L B J and Audelia, Skillman
We're just north of, White Rock Lake.
I know that area.
That's a nice area.
we have some very nice here in this area.
my particular,
I guess they want us to describe the area,
my particular area, the homes run anywhere from about sixty five, eighty thousand dollars on up to probably half a million.
that's quite a range.
the homes that were here earlier were smaller.
Now they've gotten larger and larger they have developed the land.
of course, it's pretty static right now
all the values over here have dropped off because of the economy.
How about you?
gosh, I'm barely in Dallas.
I'm just north of Addison Airport
up on the tollway.
I guess we have a similar situation.
we've got houses two streets away that are probably around seventy, eighty thousand
we've got Bent Tree right across the street
I don't
I don't even know how high those go,
some of those are pretty big.
those are over a million.
Yeah .
the strange thing about, I guess, Dallas because back where I'm from, you wouldn't have that sort of a variation at all.
They'd all be pretty similar to one another within couple miles.
we have suffered from real lack of land use planning in Dallas.
Not as bad as Houston,
exactly what you're describing is what happens all over.
I've noticed that.
now, do you live in home,
zero lot home,
we've got a house,
let's see,
we moved in about four years ago
it had existed for three years.
This is a whole block of homes that, a builder built all of them
I guess did some crazy thing to get some extra money from the bank and then ran away,
type of deal .
the whole block was all foreclosed.
some were vacant for quite a while before finally sold them because there were so many.
house in good shape,
was it damaged?
the only thing that we were worried about was the air conditioner because they'd have it just running constantly with the doors and windows open .
it was?
bargained to get an extra warrantee on that.
I see.
any problems
we had originally thought we'd have to get a fix up special or something because being from the northeast we figured we couldn't afford anything.
the prices are much lower here
this was definitely not a fix up special,
I'll tell you,
it takes all my time .
Between, we put in our own sprinkler system
I just finished repainting the exterior and, making drapes and buying furniture,
it's just a money pit. Really is.
I am
familiar with that.
live is a house that's seventeen years old when I bought it.
we bought it from someone who was in it,
before they had it, I found out after I had been in the house, had sat empty for the better part of a year.
I'm not sure what happened,
I do know the folks that we bought it from had done virtually no maintenance about four years.
I found a lot of things,
I say Arlington, Texas now because I talked one night to somebody in Arlington, Virginia.
and Plano, Texas rather than Plano, Illinois.
do they have one?
they do.
I didn't know that.
I learned something already .
let's see,
the three questions are what,
How much time do you spend with your children?
Very little.
Oh .
Because they're grown.
They're grown and gone.
mine is, down at U T Austin at college
the other one is in high school.
you do spend less time then?
C ,
They want to be with their friends.
How old are your kids?
Are they married or what?
I have, two married, married
the other two, I'm not sure.
two, for sure are single.
you have a lot of kids.
that's kind of nice, though.
I came with a split family
you shouldn't be
she had,
lonesome on a holiday,
there is so much of them are gone
they're doing their own things
that's true.
a lot of times got, , when the holidays,
They have to see their other parent, I guess
sometimes they want to do their own thing,
I know.
sometimes it's just spouse and me.
you know what?
Sometimes that's okay.
I know .
That's what my mother said one time.
who says that they just must got to come over to see us all the time
for the holidays.
that's true,
if they force them to,
that's not good either.
That becomes a drudgery
do they all live in the area?
let's see,
four around here.
we're talking like north Texas.
one is in Montpelier
Montpelier, Vermont
the other one is in Everett, Washington.
How did they end up so far away?
my little pair.
my second marriage.
Those are the youngest ones?
the s ,
the, the fourth and fifth child of the
of the, of the, six are the two that are scattered like that.
a long way.
they wanted to go,
J R, my last son
my middle son, fell in love with Washington state
the, third daughter fell in love with, Vermont.
they wanted to make their homes there.
that's where they've gone to make their homes.
My goodness.
two married?
They, just working up there or going to school or what?
let's see,
I guess you'd say J R is working, trying to go to school.
I wish to God he would go back.
they do.
Especially meant to, I think.
I certainly hope so.
I've got a daughter that's a sophomore at U T
going to U T A right now myself
it's never too late.
never too late.
Especially in some of these schools around here, I think they have about twenty percent older students.
when you're saying older, we're talking fifty up.
I've seen some people that are really quite up there
they look like in their very late sixties
I say
that's great, why not,
why not because that's lot of times, it's,
I believe that, we in that category,
I'm not in that category quite yet
we are seasoned minds.
you're really ready to learn finally.
I don't know why I even went to college when I was seventeen.
it was,
It was a complete waste of money.
settle down,
we know what we're wanting study
we know our limitations.
we don't try to burn the candle at both ends and in
the middle altogether.
We don't go out drinking beer till three and try to go to class in the morning .
At seven,
that age .
smarter now.
We know what we can do .
let's see.
mine I don't spend a whole lot of time because they're not here.
What was it,
do the trends in families
do we approve what other,
families do.
the trends in the families were to spread apart, do your own thing.
That's right.
I have seen
A change?
lately, I am seeing,
I was going to say the same thing.
I'm seeing a change that, government can't do it,
schools are
not able to
between a person's religion, faith in their maker
you're Christian or Jewish
or whatever,
the family
Are going to have to solve some of the problem,
those are the two that have the wherewithal
of course, Judeo Christianity, and of the Jewish folks, too, believe that the family unit is the one that was given the, mission by the Lord
to do this very thing.
when another group people step in, try to do it, tromping on our territory, so to speak,
I firmly believe that,
You think you're getting your money's worth?
never .
the only thing thankful of is that we don't have to pay any income tax Texas.
that's probably the next year's agenda.
Boy, I tell you what,
I sure hope they don't pass something like that.
They're finding a way to tax you every time you turn around,
think one way or the other, we're going to pay for the bureaucracy, I guess.
it's one area that is really, think hurting the economy more than anything.
I think the taxes have taking more bite out of the dollars that are available for spending for any kind of products,
I think that is probably as big a item fueling the recession as anything right now.
tell you,
I remember every time, it seems like, we turned around, they're adding another nickel or
That's right.
a few more cents onto the price of gasoline.
That's right.
that one, the taxes on gasoline bug me as much as, what are we, eight and a quarter percent sales tax?
that's right.
every time you go to buy anything now,
even, tax food.
That's the one that really kind of bothers me.
I think the problem with the sales tax, of course, is it's an unfair tax across the board, as far as ability to pay, which allegedly taxes are supposed to be directed towards.
now people with the lowest income pay a hundred percent almost of, taxes on everything they buy, and where people that make, two hundred, three hundred thousand dollars a year, certainly a portion of that, they aren't going to be paying taxes on,
that's the unfair of sales tax as a main source of revenue,
I don't think it is anymore, not in Texas anyway.
I got you, because people that, don't make very much money wind up spending it all.
That's right,
that's right.
whatever they spent it on, they have to pay tax on.
That's right,
that's right.
that's the unfairness of the thing,
I think taxes generally are unfair
do you think of that new luxury car tax, anything over ten dollars?
like other things, if they don't affect you, you don't worry about them too much.
I have trouble buying a twenty thousand dollar car still,
it doesn't,
think, generally the prices of cars have gotten out of line, which is,
I guess if people got thirty, forty thousand bucks to spend on a car, that's their prerogative, .
I don't have a whole of sympathy (( on that )) .
buy that,
I don't mean to be knocking,
I haven't,
to me it seems really interesting that they come along and add another ten percent tax, on top of it.
there's an awful lot of cars that cost more than thirty thousand.
there are,
there are.
the idea of that kind of taxation is to have people think twice on putting their money into that, I guess, unless they really want it, buy something that,
more, just like having taxes on, or exemptions for kids,
It's a way of increasing the population, was one of the initial ideas of, giving exemptions on kids, federal taxes.
where you exempt things, like, one of the best things I heard on taxes to stimulate the economy, someone, brilliant deductor, probably Lloyd Bentsen, said that all, if they gave back the deductions on credit cards on your federal taxes
people would probably be, spending more money using their credit cards.
I don't know if that's true or not,
if you look on all interest things, not just credit cards, but on your cars and, kind of interest that you're paying, from a personal point of view, that might make certain sense in stimulating consumer purchasers.
that's a lot of the games that politicians play on where they want to go, tax things that they don't, to a degree, like booze,
example, they keep raising the taxes on booze,
it gets to the point, it makes drunks sober, .
They quit buying it.
about the taxes on cigarettes?
tell me about your home.
right now we're living in,
it's me, my wife and, two young boys.
right now we're in zero lot line or a garden home.
Which you might call it.
we don't have big yard.
when my wife and I first moved in, it was just the two of us.
it was enough.
it's, I guess what they call a story and a half.
it's not a full two story.
Where, everything on top is on bottom.
it's got real high ceilings on half the house
the other half is just standard sized ceilings.
it's about a five year old house now.
It sounds nice.
It's, pretty nice.
Unfortunately, the builder who built it went out of business already .
It was a,
Landmark is the one who built it.
these guys that gambled high
lost big
That's true.
Exactly what happened to them.
I'm insulating myself from that problem.
I'm building my own house.
that's nice.
as I look out the window of my trailer, I can envision all the insulation that's going up today .
Are you doing it yourself?
I used to be a builder.
that's nice.
I retired about five years ago and
I see.
started college.
now I'm a college educated builder (( )) .
There's still no work,
I decided this summer that, we had enough credit on the credit cards to buy the materials
I did.
That's great.
see the state has a law that says you cannot borrow the money to build your own home.
R ,
is that so?
I didn't know that.
You can borrow the money to pay somebody else to build your house
you can't borrow the money to build your own.
that sounds kind of dumb.
it's to protect banks from guys that say I want to build my own house and go out a build a spec home
it doesn't sell
the bank's
holding the bag.
you know, anything that involves the government half as well as it's supposed to costs three times as much. Right?
That's right .
Hence the savings and loan problem we have.
that's true.
my home is, fairly simple.
It's designed to be added on to.
That's good.
I figure it's just me and my wife
I like to do stuff with my hands and whatnot,
I want
to have a shop.
How big a lot do you got it on?
Ten acres.
That's nice.
That's real nice.
It's really nice too because I can't see my nearest neighbor.
He's on the other side of a hill.
my second nearest neighbor is a dot on the horizon.
That's pretty good.
in the winter time, I can another guy
I can just make out his place,
I've got a thirty mile view to the east and about ten miles to the north.
that's pretty good.
I took a lot of time in choosing this site
because house has no heating or air conditioning.
you don't plan on putting of that in?
it's got very small furnace.
wood burning stove as well.
in the house itself, I've been working inside, these many months
I have not had to use the heat.
it's all geothermal.
That's pretty good.
with all the,
see I've got,
on the south side is all glass.
as much as I could get in it,
the east side is glass.
I've got one, two, three, four, five, six windows in the east side on forty eight feet.
it's almost all glass.
My wife would love that .
She loves lots of windows.
There's no place in the house where you can stand and not see four windows.
That's great.
Is it a single story?
not really.
on the side of a hill.
I see.
the first,
what I call residential level
at the side that's in the hill is about four feet deep.
I see.
the side that's on other side is about six feet high.
I've got a pretty good grade there.
when I put the verandas will be twelve feet out all the way around on the north, south and east sides
that will define the shop.
that's kind of a Victorian style?
always liked that.
don't have much yard
I built a small deck in the back.
see these magazines where, dig own deck.
kind of wish I had them, those size property one with a grade on it so I can build a real nice deck.
what sort of camping do you like to do the most?
do, real rough type camping.
I have a motor home .
rough type, ?
motor homes can be a lot of fun.
they really are.
They really are.
enjoyed it.
I've never actually done any, tent camping,
one of these days I'm going to try that, too.
that can be a lot of fun, too.
to go visit, the national parks and state parks just get out and see nature.
How about you?
so far my wife and I have pretty much had to stick with tent camping.
This summer we went to, the Smokey Mountain National Park.
how great.
And, stayed about three or four days in there.
It was wonderful.
Nights were cool enough to where they're comfortable.
the days were nice and warm
it was beautiful, beautiful few days.
That's great.
It worked out particularly well, especially considering she was, six months pregnant.
I don't know,
it worked pretty well.
It was one of dome type pop up tents.
Nice and quick and easy to put up.
Packs away nice and small
about had to be something like that getting around in a Pinto.
that's true,
that's true.
It was a lot of fun.
I guess the last real, camping trip I took a couple years ago.
I went to California up to the Sequoias.
that's got to be beautiful territory.
it's gorgeous,
I love the big trees.
the drive coast line
and then cut over into the parks, it's gorgeous, though.
What, like, Sequoia National Park?
I had been there before when I lived in California,
that's my first trip back in, goodness, thirty years maybe .
that is God's country,
it has to be.
Do they still have scenic, roadways that cut through the center of some of those trees?
they don't,
the last one,
the first time I was there, tree was still standing,
it has since come down.
they are huge.
If you've never seen them, very awe inspiring.
so far, New Orleans is far west as I've gotten.
New Orleans and, Minneapolis.
there is lots of pretty country further west.
We're hoping one of these days soon after we're out of school to head that way.
you just need to take the little one.
Show them pretties before they go away.
They seem to be trailing out quickly.
Yeah ,
there is lots to see .
There is, course, Grand Canyon
the Painted Desert real pretty, in a different sort of way.
course, Sequoias and the Redwoods you get up into Bryce Canyon and Yellowstone
the Grand Tetons are gorgeous, too.
I imagine.
I would imagine they are.
Course, guess I'm partial to big tree country.
I don't know why I got stuck down here in Texas now .
I think it's called a job,
I don't know .
not a whole lot of forestry down there, is there?
No ,
not around here.
Not around here .
Place is forested trees.
of concrete and glass,
I guess that's God's place, too.
what do you figure has been the longest trip you've taken camping?
probably last one that I went to California
I took, three weeks.
Three weeks.
I was actually on the road a little more than three weeks.
the whole family, then, was
in on this?
Everybody .
That would have to be a blast.
you went out from Texas up that area?
through, the Grand Canyon, again
we stopped at, Las Vegas for a couple of nights, and then, went into Malibu in California over on the coast.
we went up Big Sur Highway all the way up to San Francisco.
then cut across through the wine country.
And then went down Sequoia National Park.
Big Sur Highway, that's, where you're pretty much in view of the ocean almost all the time
aren't you?
do you have any pets now?
we don't right now,
I grew up
My folks and I always had a dog and a cat,
right now we don't have anything.
What about you?
a matter of choice, or compulsion?
we've just,
it seems like,
we've always been at a place where we'd have to go away for the summer or something
it was,
never convenient to have anything.
(( )) we were thinking about getting a dog if we get into a house.
someplace where there,
we can take care of it and everything.
We've got,
some children who would just really, enjoy having an animal, a dog, I think
What about you all?
right now I'm a student,
campus housing does not even allow thinking about that .
we almost got chased out of here for feeding a stray cat.
Is that right?
They're very strict about it.
pets and things?
I love animals.
(( yeah )) .
I was raised,
our house was growing up there was almost never, at least one cat in the house.
It was always at least one cat, sometimes, like fifteen or twenty. But, always cats in the house.
enjoyed them.
you've got to deal with, taking care of them feeding them and everything like that.
our kids are,
we've got some children
they're used to it, on a daily basis.
How old are your kids?
from fourteen down to seven.
You sound like you've got some small ones in the background.
Is that right?
Our first.
He's about eleven weeks now.
Where are you from?
West Virginia.
I don't know how familiar you are with that area of the country
I've been to Charleston.
Charleston, West Virginia?
that's pretty much the south end of the state, or the southern quarter of the state, anyway? .
in the north end of the state, you've got that little narrow strip of West Virginia going up between Ohio and Pennsylvania .
Right at the base of that northern peninsula
huh .
is my hometown.
it's really up north in the country, really, (( )) .
I guess so.
my parents' house is like three miles south of where the Mason Dixon Line would have hit the Ohio River had it
continued that far.
I see.
It's pretty nice country up there?
it's beautiful.
Hills, or what?
from my neck of the woods, it's hilly.
maybe feet elevation,
huh .
type variations from the valleys up to
Is it farmland?
not a lot of farmland there.
Mostly it's,
there's, individuals f , growing their own food.
most of the agriculture, it's more in the way of, sheep and cattle.
even that's, small time mostly.
the biggest chunk of what's going on there industry.
It's coal mines and chemical plants and power plants.
aluminum plants.
There's like two aluminum plants (( )) .
studying there at (( Heidelberg )) ?
Computer engineering.
What year?
just finished up my fourth semester.
I hope that works out well.
it's a big change.
I spent,
twenty years as a mechanic
did you?
you've got some experience behind you in the work force.
Are you, shooting for a bachelor's now, or a master's, or what?
I'm working on a bachelor's degree.
I'm working on a bachelor's degree.
It'll be compu ,
Hope it's a good program there.
Hope it's a good program there.
it seems to me, from what I've been able to find out.
That's considered a pretty good program.
It's nice and small, which means, if you don't get the class this semester, then you've got to wait semesters to get,
it again.
worth it once you get it.
that's good.
probably a good, student teacher ratio and things.
Yeah .
Most the class are pretty small.
That works out real well.
was wondering what, if you all were to get a pet, like if you were to move into an apartment
a house somewhere, what would you get?
first off we'd probably wind up with cat or maybe a puppy.
I'm partial towards the larger dogs.
our last, had a couple of cats before we moved on campus.
had a hamster or two,
A hamster.
to be a lot of fun.
it's amazing how much character,
Your family have reunions on a regular basis?
Probably, once every five years.
Once every five years?
you have got a pretty big family.
that is the hardest part about getting together
everyone is spread out all over Timbuktu.
And you?
we have a pretty big family,
most of us,
I am originally from West Virginia.
Most of the family is right in the West Virginia, what they call Tri State area, northern West Virginia, eastern Ohio, southwestern Pennsylvania.
Most everybody is right in that area.
That makes it a lot easier.
A lot more convenient.
That is why we only do it once every five or ten years.
Spec ,
it is always that hard to get everyone together.
They put one together for our family about once every June.
It was on my grandmother's birthday,
gone now.
that is kind of what happened with ours.
That is why we have not had one in a long time.
to make one successful, what do you all do.
Do you all just start planning real far ahead of time?
do you all start planning real far ahead of time?
There is kind of a set pattern to it.
There is,
the day it happens is ninety eight percent of the planning usually.
really .
we, get together, at park, park, and playground area of the Church I was raised in
everybody brings lots of food
some put up the volleyball net and sit around and tell stories and catch up and play volleyball all day and get really fat .
Eat a lot.
It is a lot harder for us because spread out
we have to plan anywhere from six, really probably a year ahead of time so that everyone, can start their, vacation time.
Schedule vacation time
We usu ,
or, sometimes it has been like on a Saturday afternoon.
Usually, it is like Sunday afternoon
most people do not have more than a couple of hours drive at tops
to get there and back.
is that one of your,
where I am calling from is southern Mississippi.
we have got, my wife and I have, a bit longer ways to go than most.
you also manage to make them.
have only made one of them since we got married about four years ago.
One of the family reunions.
we are both in school
that makes it kind of tough.
have been happening, just after the summer semester starts.
You can't really get away.
Usually not.
We managed to get to one.
That was before I started school
she took that summer off.
now that we have been talking about it, am kind of getting home sick now.
it has been over three years since I have been home
to see my grandparents.
grandfather is the only one that is still around.
my grandmother is the one that use to plan this stuff basically.
unless the aunts and uncles really get on the ball and put stuff together, it is kind of like.
She was like the glue,
I understand.
Where is home for you?
Originally, I, was born in Missouri.
we have relatives scattered out all over Louisiana, Mississippi, here in Texas
it is harder for everyone to home.
maybe this year you can find a more central location.
the majority of them are quarters.
it is easier for us few stragglers to go home.
Then the majority of them are still in the Missouri area.
our family right now, the most of it, there is only a few stragglers, with any distance.
There is one cousin out in Colorado, some cousins over in Phoenix,
I got a sister over Washington State .
the rest of them are within, a couple hours drive.
how do you all communicate? Like to plan it and every thing.
Do you all just call each other up on the phone and say this is the weekend we are going to do it,
do you all like mail out stuff?
That is pretty much it.
It is going to be such and such, weekend
you all come.
That is about it .
this is the standard pattern.
everybody brings their favorite dish
somebody brings the volleyball net,
somebody brings a whole lot of ice for the watermelon
I guess probably the last one I went to I met so many people that I had not seen in probably years.
It was like, don't you remember me.
I am like no .
Am I related to you?
I know.
I married your cousin's brother's uncle or something like that.
Do you,
is that since,
do you have them every year?
every year.
(( )) .
still, you wind up meeting people never knew you were related to. Let alone
I think that is probably why our is probably so interesting is cause we don't have them that often
when we do, and everyone finally does get together,
it is like after the,
you have eight children.
what type of things do you do as a family to spend time together.
we spend a lot of time outdoors jogging, bicycling, going to the park, some time watching V C R
generally cheap things .
we know how that goes.
with lots of kids you don't have lots of money for recreation.
That's right.
that's fun.
let's see,
some of the things we do together as a family, we like to play games a lot,
you may think this is funny,
one of our funnest games we like to play together is hide and seek,
we just have a hoot playing hide and seek when it's dark
in our house,
that is so fun.
The kids just get a crack out of that.
to go to the park, too family.
we don't do a lot of vacationing.
Have you taken a lot of vacations together
Most of our vacations are to go and see Grandma and Grandpa.
whe ,
We get an occasional one or two day thing
most of them are going and seeing Grandma and Grandpa.
now where do they live?
In Arizona.
that's a bit of a drive for you there.
you like to go there for the holidays
we don't go very often for holidays.
Generally we try to get all of our kids back home for the holidays
and let Grandma and Grandpa come and visit us.
what are the ages of your kids then?
They range from twenty four to five.
you have some in the nest and some out,
That's right.
How old are your children?
We have,
ours start at twelve
they go down to four.
I think the hardest thing for us to find that all of our kids can enjoy together
I bet,
with the age span that we have,
the older kids love playing board games and that kind of thing
the young kids don't understand it
they get real frustrated when we try to do that,
if you want to play something on the little kids' level, then the older kids get real bored,
they want to do something else.
relate to that.
do you feel that the current trend in families spending time together is a positive one or a negative one?
I think it's improving, actually.
We had an interesting experience the other day.
have pretty much routine that we spend,
we don't have our kids play with other kids on Sunday
we just kind of keep them at home
our next door neighbor,
we were at a soccer game Saturday,
our next door neighbor was there,
somebody came up and asked if their daughter could spend Saturday night at their house
she said, no, Sunday's our family day
huh .
we keep our kids at home so we can spend time with them.
That's good.
I think those kinds of things are happening a lot where we are right now.
I think it's gone to one extreme where the families were just running all different direction
I think more people are interested in spending time with their kids now.
I think so,
I feel President has mentioned quite often, that we are trying to become a kinder and gentler nation,
it does begin with the families at home
a firm believer in that, too.
I think a lot of people are panicked, how kids are turning out and how things are going for kids and realizing they've got to start doing something.
we see that a lot out here in Utah,
it's going to spread, (( )) .
Utah's a lot better than Texas.
do you have a lot of large families out there in Texas,
Very few.
Very few.
You feel like you're in the minority?
When we tell people how many kids we have they look at us like we didn't have good sense.
dear .
out here in Utah, five is about the
the average,
My wife and I were in Utah until
I guess we were about twenty four.
Never been back, since then,
We have kids up there now,
we get up occasionally.
I have some relatives out there in Texas,
in fact my mom's out there in Texas right now, in Dallas, spending a month with her cousins, on their ranch,
in Dallas?
I'm trying, Aberdeen?
that close to Dallas?
I don't have any idea.
I've never
heard of it.
Must be a
Don't you.
little town.
out there, clear out.
They have a ranch that has like five hundred acres,
Martin, do you do any exercise?
I do.
I like to, play basketball and weight lifting.
Those are probably the two main things I like to do.
those are more or less indoor sports.
How's the
weather out there in Georgia?
in the winter, typically probably too cold to go out and do things like tennis.
I like to play tennis in the
summer time or in the spring, fall,
in the winter it gets pretty cold.
it's mostly indoor sports, I think, in the winter.
how about yourself?
I'm on a exercise program.
I'm riding my Aerodyne bike,
half an hour every morning,
I'm just about ready to up it to up to forty five minutes a morning,
I feel like that's been a real nice exercise in the winter time.
it's kind of kept me from getting cabin fever and, has seemed to be a real nice aerobic exercise.
Do you do, any anaerobic type, weight lifting or weight training type exercise?
like to get my weight off.
I'm about fifty pounds overweight,
I'd like to get the weight off,
I'd really like to get into that.
aerobic video that's called The Firm.
I don't know if you've heard of it,
it's aerobic video with, not necessarily bouncing around and jumping up and down,
you're using weights,
that is the most incredible aerobic workout I have ever done.
it's really fun.
it's aero , it's similar to aerobics with weights
it's like low impact aerobics, just
with weights.
are you familiar with, step or bench aerobics?
I am,
I have never done it myself.
Have you done that?
I have.
Atlanta that's,
most of the health clubs
are all,
in thing.
That's the big thing,
At first it was just regular aerobics,
now bench or step aerobics have
kind of taken over.
how is that?
a low impact aerobics,
it's supposed to burn off more calories
at the same time.
from when I've done it, it does give you workout.
only thing I'm concerned about is potential for injury to your knees
that and movement of going up on the step
that could create a problem.
seem to think that won't,
you never know.
Now, if, playing basketball, are you knees,
do you have healthy knees?
think my ankles probably are my main weak point.
dear .
kind of taken care of that.
I wear high tops and then also a support ankle brace which is very stiff
that I haven't had any problems in the past year or so.
that's good.
just like my husband.
he injured his ankle about seven months ago playing volleyball,
he's just had a heck of a time getting that ankle healthy.
that's what he does,
he wears brace and his high tops
mine so many times that
rehabilitating became quite easy.
Oh, (( )) .
it would only take three or four days
I could play again on it
Wow .
because after a while you just learn how to rehabilitate yourself
to play that way.
successful is your exercise video?
It is amazing how fast you take off the inches
like to do the forty five minutes a day on the bike for a week,
every other day I'd like to incorporate the video, and then the bike on the other day.
it is really amazing how fast the inches come off,
the muscle builds
real fast.
you can start,
they recommend doing the video without weights for the first month
after that you can just start with your five pound dumbbells, and then build up to your, twenty five pound dumbbells
you're just doing repetitious exercises throughout the whole video
it's a hour long video,
it's a good workout.
It is,
I really enjoy that,
I'm looking forward to losing this weight and
being firm and healthy .
in the winter, I guess, there's a lot of,
it's quite cold and
Now this one has been quite mild.
we could have been out walking throughout the whole winter, because really we only had about three weeks of snow on the ground.
It was quite chilly
(( )) I pressed the button one,
we're recording right now.
I'm sorry .
That's okay.
I'm Bill from Raleigh.
I'm Melanie from Harrisville, Utah.
another one from a different state besides Texas.
Bill, we're talking about family reunions.
have you ever had to plan a family reunion?
it wasn't really one,
a birthday
I brought a lot of family together then.
how did you feel it went?
It went pretty good.
worked in hotels,
kind of know how to do these things.
I used to,
All this planning getting together and such.
let's see what else.
Usually when we have kind of our family reunion it's my grandmother's birthday,
it's all of like, comes from a big family.
She has like seven sisters I think.
boy .
They show up and all their kids.
all, she has,
I have
let's see,
she has four sons and two daughters,
they show up and all their kids,
it's a pretty big reunion,
it's about two hundred people, maybe.
my word.
what did you find was most helpful in planning the birthday get together?
biggest challenge was getting a place where everyone, could eat comfortably everything,
I guess probably the most helpful thing was that, for the rent, we rented rescue squad building or something
like that.
that showed up donated some money for the rent and soft drinks
nobody really got stuck with the bill.
that's good.
each person in the family, brought a dish, or something.
did you have a main meal,
did everyone just bring,
it was just pot luck.
It was kind of pot luck.
everybody brought their specialties, I guess you would say.
show off a little bit .
of course my grandmother's food was, as always, gone first
because she's such a great cook.
Now how old is she?
she's eighty six.
Now she does,
she looks probably like she's in her early sixties
if she didn't have arthritis, she'd get around better
than me as a matter of fact .
that's neat, that she's in good health, and at that age.
My nickname for her is Honey Woman.
That's what I call her.
that sounds fun.
had a real challenge of planning a family reunion a few years ago,
there were,
we sent out five hundred, announcements, because our family is quite large, like family there.
that was a real challenge,
I was president of our family reunion for two years,
I wasn't very (( )) at that duty, for two years in a row,
I found that advance planning was the key to success.
also one thing that's helpful,
I don't know if your family's spread out or whatever
my family lives in the same county
that's wonderful, though .
it's just kind of like get on the telephone
it's so and such days from such and such date
everybody just shows up.
our family ranges from, goodness, Australia,
I have a brother lives in Australia, to, Boise, Idaho, all kinds of places.
I would say you're spread out, then.
We are .
my immediate family, parents and my brothers and sisters, I guess we're the ones that have the gypsy blood or whatever,
my dad was in the Army
we're pretty strung out all over.
since they've moved back to Carolina's, we still are the only ones do not live in
in Yantsen County.
I live in Raleigh,
parents live in Greenville,
I have one brother and his wife
live in Greenville, and, another brother that lives Fayetteville.
spread out,
everybody else is centralized my home town, Waynesboro
my gosh.
Nobody moves away except us .
They must really like it there.
I got out as soon as I graduated.
Just like this town is too small for me,
Good bye.
you're ready to move on to bi ,
How do you feel about gun control?
I don't think that guns should be outlawed
it's going to,
a lot of the stuff that,
all you do is to get guns
and then like with the stuff of that massacre in Killeen, Texas not too long ago,
I don't really know, unless they do, just outlaw them, how you can, prevent that.
don't you think that just having, some, almost like a driver's license be required with stiff penalties if you are found a gun that is not registered or that you are not licensed to carry.
do you even know what the procedures are now?
It varies from State to State.
There is no national,
it's kind of like if you want a gun you can get a gun, especially if you have the money to pay for it.
in most States as long as you aren't a convicted felon.
or on probation or, other obvious things like that.
that in a lot of states be just like released from a mental hospital the day before. obviously insane,
have your legal right to get a gun.
I didn't know that.
that's pretty scary.
they want us to say where we feel about it, in rating it one to ten.
say about a five.
That's where I would probably be .
Seems like it's a good safe number to pick,
I don't really know really enforce the laws any better
huh .
I do think that some people need them for protection and stuff
I can understand them wanting to have them,
then again it's just like all those nuts out there.
no ,
if you are looking at country they do have a lot more gun control, like England and places like that,
the amount of violent crime has decreased by so much.
It has?
in comparing per capita murders are incredibly lower than the United States.
the problem though, United States had this, pretty much unrestricted flow of guns going for so long that I think, if you were introduced, any controls, it would probably take a long while for them to take effect just because there is a glut of guns out there already.
really kind of a complex problem.
is the crime that bad there in Atlanta?
I'm not really sure how bad it is.
not really had that many problems with it,
apparently were ranked pretty high up.
I know Dallas is.
I think, in the te ,
I think we have been ranked in one of the top three for murders in the last few years.
I don't know if Dallas is in the top three
Do you own a gun?
I've thought about getting one.
If I get one, I think I will probably, get something.
I probably wouldn't get a hand gun.
I would probably get a shotgun.
Just for protecting myself. from
burglar type thing.
I do kind of live in the downtown area.
shotguns are really good because they're,
somebody is not going to break in, steal it, and use it to mug someone,
That's true.
I just don't understand these people, like when decide they're going to buy a gun to protect themselves.
They go out and buy a three fifty seven magnum which is going to shoot through
they are probably going to miss the person
they're going to shoot through five wall,
and hit someone,
a shotgun just really struck me as being a real good defensive weapon.
You can sort of point it somewhere in the direction of
You pretty much stop them.
you don't,
then the actual shot doesn't go that far, a wall will stop it pretty much.
now when I first moved to Dallas, I moved up here by myself
my Dad gave me a gun
I never did go out and practice with it enough to feel comfortable with it
I finally ended up giving it back to him.
I said I don't want it.
I don't want to be responsible for it because
if you're not going to teach me how to do it
and if I am not going to,
be responsible enough to go out and learn, I don't need it.
really does scare me. People, that have guns
because if you ever get in the situation where you are not prepared to shoot,
you pick up the gun and point it at the person
person rushes you.
they get it from you.
you're pretty much dead
Because just told the person that about to kill them then,
Set them off.
basically made it clear to the person that you are a real danger to them
manage to get the gun from you, their first reaction is going to you.
that's why I ended up giving it back to him.
I thought
I don't want it it
I just didn't want the responsibility.
did you hear about that Killeen massacre or whatever?
happen at a cafeteria or something?
That kind of
it just makes you wonder how people get guns.
I would be scared selling guns to people.
Julie, how do you feel about AIDS research?
I think more of it, definitely.
I'd agree, too,
it seems like it just makes economic sense in that,
it would have made even better economic sense to have had a lot more research than a longer ago.
for certain.
the country's going to wind up paying for the treatment of patients.
health insurance policies, for companies and things, do they cover diseases like that?
I think they cover AIDS,
what they do is, if, you apply to get insurance policy
they'll, check to see if you're H I V positive
if you are, not only will they not give you, a policy,
there's a database of people that have tested positive,
you'll never be able to get insurance ever again.
why they should have doing stuff before.
still, since it's dormant for such a long time, there's still probably a lot of people, before the tests ever really came out
draining a lot of money right now.
I think a lot of it just that, of the, audi , because, because the majority of the high risk groups were people
no one really cared about.
all these God fearing people were like,
God is trying to kill off all the (( et cetera, et cetera )) .
one h , one humorous retort I someone, who claimed that, AIDS was, God's punishment
was that, then lesbians must be God's chosen people.
that's a good one.
do you actually think we're doing enough right now to,
I really don't.
a research kind of thing on AIDS research and stuff,
really we're not doing much at all,
Private organizations.
conscious, communities and things like that,
San Francisco has real, strong AIDS support group and all that kind of stuff
donations from the community,
And from corporations city, for AIDS research and that kind of thing
I think there needs to be more of that sort of on a federal level, rather than just in the places predominated so far, because
bound to spread .
it seems that, going to reach state lot higher point than it will if nip it in the bud to Barney Fife.
Right .
I don't know,
I don't know,
I don't know what the likelihood of that is,
people really waking up.
Especially with the ultra conservatives
move political system sort of seems to be taking.
I would probably agree with that.
you think it's more important to spend money on research or for support of, people?
that's a good question, Fish.
I don't know,
one of the main things that's really important to spend money on is education, not support research per se, education because a lot of people sort of get drummed out of the work place and out of society, kind of like lepers would
not necessary, the, disease reaches its final stage, becomes really infectious
I think that would be the most effective support they could get is for other people what they're going through and everything and try to understand that
huh .
they don't have to be just completely cut off the community
I don't know,
I guess I think research is, I guess the most important, just because really needs to come to an end.
I don't know.
I don't know, Fish.
What do you think about that subject?
a really interesting question of,
what do you feel about the, present situation in the Mideast?
it looks like it's just about as volatile as it usually is.
What do you think, Mark?
I agree.
there's definitely been some changes,
I think end of the Soviet Union will definitely have it's effect the situation.
in that not,
basically since the end of World War two there was always, that little proxy war going on.
with, the U S funding Israel the, Soviet Union funding the Arab countries.
we'll see what happens when, they're not funded quite as much.
Or supplied with arms the same way.
on the same token, Israel has lost a lot of their, value to the U S in being, the foothold of capitalism.
the Mideast.
tend to be pretty strong supporters of Israel ourselves,
we kind of cringe when they make mistakes but yet
overall tend to support them.
I think one of the most interesting things to me recently was, during the war,
in, Kuwait was, the fact that they did not retaliate,
for the, scud missiles that were, launched there.
That just seemed to me to be phenomenal, demonstration of restraint,
it must have reflected, some awful good, diplomacy on the part of the U S.
on the other hand, if they would have had a hard time retaliating because wouldn't have been given access to the friend or foe codes.
I see.
they had, they would have to fly through, two enemies.
you don't think they got the codes from the U S already?
The U S would claim that they would have not given them to them.
I see.
of course, public statements can be taken for,
That's true.
D ,
what do y ,
what about this situation with continual, harassment by Iraq right now and, apparently failing to let the, arms inspectors have free access.
to begin with,
I pretty much question the U S s motives were in actually the original involvement.
the cynical side of me says that, it was more for, domestic political situation than for anything else.
and for portraying Bush is a strong President.
think my gut feeling is he pretty much the fight Hussein.
I'm saying at all that Hussein wasn't quite willing to that fight.
we chose to have our official feelings hurt.
Where a lot w ,
do you think that, we should ignore it and just allowed him to go ahead and,
move on into Kuwait and see what happens?
I think that, in the past we've allowed lots of things like that to happen.
really don't, I really don't think that,
a lot more demographic related interests involved than true foreign policy interests.
may have been.
I'm not saying that that's not the case.
in along this line really, it really didn't accomplish very much except (( we're )) the Iraqis out of Kuwait.
I d , I, I, I don't foresee Bush making the decision to invest a lot of manpower and money and, fighting a second battle.
the, probably won't politically.
it doesn't look like we're getting ready much more in there.
Even at this point.
what about,
do you have views on, Israel's relation to the U S?
Do you,
think we ought to,
back off on our support of the country
what do yo ,
very fixed feelings about Israel.
I think for a long while had almost a, ha , t ,
we're supposed to talk about recycling. your personal opinion is on it.
really for a speech research project they're doing
I don't know.
Florida is pretty good about recycling isn't it?
they just kicked it off down here Sarasota county.
they did?
they had been doing it,
they started first in Sarasota City.
which makes up a pretty small portion of the county actually.
they've got these, I don't know what, if you're familiar with Sarasota county at all.
Not quite,
They've got these,
county wide program now.
what they've done is they've broken everything down into garbage. yard trash.
Plastic, and glass.
And then, paper.
Which, in the paper, it's just, newspaper and corrugated cardboard.
Is the only thing you're supposed to put in there.
No slicks.
Let me ask you this.
Do they require you to presort it?
See that's something in Minneapolis they're really strict on.
In terms of you got to put everything in its own little bag and really presort it really, tightly.
when I lived in Orlando, it's like you could put almost anything in there
they'd just sort it out for you .
(( Yeah )) .
It was really pretty good if you're lazy like I am,
I talked to this girl
acquaintance of mine
she's involved with,
what is the name of that company.
It's not Amway
it's the other big vitamin company? Shaklee.
she's just Shaklee crazy, because it's her business and everything.
she asked,
we were talking one day
she asked me a couple of questions,
what she said generally, the problems that people have with being environmentally conscious is number one, they don't want it to change their lifestyle
especially make it anymore complicated or any extra work or anything.
what recycling at home sorting does,
it's a little extra work.
it can actually turn out to be a lot of extra work because what they do, what
It can,
they do here in Sarasota county is they've got,
you put your garbage in a garbage bag
you set it out by the curb.
If you have yard trash, you put your yard trash in some kind of container.
you can have bundles up to a certain weight, and dimensions, tie them up and
you got to tie them up and everything.
put them by the curb.
the plastic, cans and glass, they give you this little tub
it's about a foot and a half deep
it's about one by one and a half foot wide and long.
This is a little container.
they have another one the same size.
That one's red.
Then they have a blue one the same size for the paper goods.
you would have to rinse out your pop cans.
Otherwise you got bees and ants
if you've got, food containers or anything like that, it's a big problem.
It is, a big
not only do you
that's true.
up here, they give you of those containers
you put everything in it.
it's like, you use a lot of stuff, you,
it's like if you're a partying kind of guy and you drink, a couple of twelve packs, maybe, over the weekend
it's going to be hard pressed all your recyclables in that one
This is true.
This is true.
kind of a pain in the butt.
I don't know.
That's definitely one thing they could do to make it easier is to just,
You those garbage people that thirty bucks an hour,
have them do a little bit of the sorting.
maybe come up with a better system.
Make it a little more convenient.
they've got these large garbage cans that you can rent from the waste management company here.
if you want to have a nice garbage can,
it's on wheels
it's big.
you can actually rent those?
That's interesting.
Yeah .
up here city provides them.
Kind of like,
the city they do
out here in the county you have to rent them.
okay (( )) .
they just add it on to your water bill or something.
where exactly are you in terms Sarasota?
Are you north of Sarasota or,
East of Sarasota.
Sarasota is on the west coast?
south of Tampa, right?
About an hour.
About an hour south of Tampa .
I listen to this talk radio station down here
it's really,
I don't if you ever listen to talk radio
those guys, they just kind of get into, stewing up trouble,
With the callers and things like that.
they get into some really good conversations sometimes,
some of it, sometimes it's serious
they have some good feedback and all that stuff
from listening to that, I kind of got an idea that I thought would be good with
this kind of fits into aid program,
the welfare program that's going on right now.
it's like,
what things do you consider an invasion of privacy?
I don't know.
What do you think?
I don't know.
I had a little bit more time to think about it.
I was thinking of,
I don't know,
I to think about all the big, data bases they have with all the information about you on them like the credit reports
and all those, demographics studies that they do that, have, who knows, how much, stuff about all the purchases that you've made and everything kept tract somewhere
I don't know,
I don't know in there
I know
what about, required drug testing, as a, condition of employment?
was the other one I was thinking of .
I think that's,
I know drugs are illegal.
It (( )) thing actually.
I, have worked at Texas Instruments.
they instituted a where they randomly would test, employees
to tell you the truth, I really did not think much about it.
it really didn't relate to me.
there were some things that people brought up like what happens if get a false positive, what recourse do you have.
also, this is against the law for the government to do
yet, a lot of these large corporations such as Texas Instruments, although they don't admit to it, about as a result of government pressure.
what that means is, to me, that really it's the government that's requiring this,
although they don't actually it themselves, it's really the government that (( )) .
in that sense, really borderline legal.
think the, I think that, a person's competence should be more determined by, their actions and their behavior
on some kind of, substance then, it kinds of takes away from the job of, the supervisor or manager type person, who is able to evaluate them.
I think they should be evaluated that way rather than with chemical,
what about this, AIDS epidemic now?
Where you find that, certain people criminal in their disregard for it ,
These people that are carriers and don't
that don't reveal it?
of course, the ultimate solution is to operate on their brain so that it doesn't,
destroys their libido.
(( Yeah, would be kind of an extreme.
if they ever,
I've heard of things like, somehow something like that or, putting them all someplace like in a kind of,
what about that as an invasion of privacy?
I guess it kind of borders on do you value more. The invasion of, the person's privacy or the possible danger to, other people.
it gets to balancing, personal freedom against, the general welfare
of society.
I guess the big role of government, I guess . generally.
supposed to have been.
. Yeah.
that's kind of a difficult one to go into.
I mean particular case.
(( No,
it )) ,
there's a lot of people that, they could require, AIDS testing for everyone because there's a huge part of the population,
not a huge part a,
A growing part.
the AIDS population I guess that have it, that don't know they do
are spreading it.
again, to require, such a test to it (( )) is to subject them practices and other things.
I don't know,
I don't know how exactly I feel about that.
(( Maybe )) chop their weenies off.
I guess, it's an easy one for me.
I think something seriously wrong,
What is it that you are, particularly upset about?
they've lost their compass
I'm not sure they know exactly what, public education supposed to be for anymore.
I voted with my feet
my kids go to parochial school.
What do you feel that your kids are getting in the parochial schools that they wouldn't get in public school system?
one hundred percent of the, customers care.
That's one thing.
Everybody cares about the education the kids are getting.
they, take an part.
if you're, sending two thousand dollars that way every year, you, watch what goes on and you, pay attention and participate
you can influence the way things are.
you're saying that the taxpayer who also is really paying through the pocketbook for the education of the child may not be quite so conscious of the fact that they are paying the tuition for that child in the form of, real estate or other taxes
consequently, they're not so motivated to get involved and make sure things happen the way they'd like to see them happen?
The immediacy just isn't there.
I also think that one of the problems
is a cultural problem.
The, problem with public education is a problem with the culture.
I guess my evidence for that is the school districts in places like California, for example, where only a minority of the taxpayers have children in school
you can't get a tax levy passed.
people are, reluctant to pass, school tax levies even, when the money is needed or would be well spent because they don't have kids in the schools.
I think that's loss of civic virtue and a loss of, the cultural attitude that we used to have that education was first even if it wasn't our kids.
I think the principal problem is that, people no longer see it their problem
there's an immediate problem.
It troubles me too the priority seems to be with my particular purse strings rather than the public good
by definition, for some of us, at least, the public good includes having an educated populace and (( then ))
idea that, you can make a sound judgment with respect to small votes local level or bigger votes at
the national level.
it means that you've got to be informed
you've got to have a certain level of education to do the reading
and the critical thinking involved to come up with a decision.
believe that the original idea of public education in the United States, which I guess was controversial at the time of the constitution.
it barely made it.
I think it was added afterwards .
I think was, education for civic participation.
The idea was that everybody should have an education so that they would be a better voter
you couldn't pull the wool over their eyes.
It has taken on a more profound,
you'd think we'd notice it, economic thrust.
that's exactly what I was going to say.
Now there seem to be really three reasons for education.
One is education for civic duty.
One is education for economic reasons.
one is education for civilization.
I think that one,
I'm glad that you added that one.
I think that one's significant.
That's what I used to think education was all about when I was a college professor
I quit and got disabused of that notion .
only thing people seem to agree on is that education is, an economic enterprise to train people for jobs.
I'm not sure that people in the education establishment really know what their purpose is.
I'm really sad to say this,
I never thought I would have
I really think that, the educational establishment has become part of the problem.
that's why I guess I'm sort of, reluctantly, in favor of these, choice programs.
agree with everything that you've said so far
the only that I'd want to add is that I'm a little more in contact, I think, with public school teachers than perhaps you are, except as a parent of your child
the sense that I get from public school teachers that I know is that they are very conscious of what they feel they should be doing
they are the three things that you mentioned.
they find that they are also being asked to do a bunch of other stuff which they think is only tangentially related
That's what,
like consumer,
kids too?
Yeah . (( )) .
you laugh.
How many,
what ages? .
twenty seven up.
we had five.
You've been through the fun part .
how about yourself?
I have a four and a half and a three.
sure there's a lot of differences it's done now and then.
when mine were growing up, I did some traveling not that extensively
I always (( )) just made it a point, to spend about ten minutes with each one of them.
it was an hour,
whether it was going back and laying in bed with them and just shooting the breeze or whatever, telling them stories or reading to them.
What was the age difference between the youngest and the oldest?
Six years.
they were all real close?
That's tough.
That's a lot of time.
We look back and wonder how we did it.
Did you both work? Your wife too?
she never did.
qualify that.
(( )) .
She worked at home, I'm sure .
both my husband and I work
sometimes I feel like, by the time I pick them up and get them home and get them fed, I have very little time each evening.
Maybe thirty minutes max.
that's plenty though.
he spends a lot of time with them while I'm cooking
I spend time with them while, he's doing other stuff.
of course, we try to spend a lot of time on the weekend.
there's a lot of times my house may not be as clean as I particularly like it
it's neat,
it's straight
I can live with it because
I do stuff with my kids,
with kids you're not going to have a neat house.
I've accepted that too .
That's true.
tough to find time.
It is.
especially with both of them working.
That's true.
you just have to set the time and say, okay this is going to be it.
that's true
we do a lot of that on the weekends,
We try to spend Saturdays together.
If my husband golfs, he'll do it during nap time, things like that where they're not really missing the presence,
we do a lot of family things together.
kind of going the other direction this weekend.
We're planning a trip, just he and I.
This is the first time we've gone anywhere without the kids
that's good too.
since she was born four and a half years ago.
that's good that way too .
I decided that, you need that once in awhile. That you, you need to plan the quality time
I do think that if you plan it and spend that and make it quality time you don't have to be there twenty four hours a day.
all it takes is about five, ten minutes a day.
as the kids got older I made them, help me cut the grass and
kind of made that a project too.
Or whatever
they think that's a family activity,
That's great fun .
My daughter's like, Mommy can I help you with the laundry?
Of course, you can .
Just keep them talking that way.
Yeah .
another thing we used to do is have councils.
Every Sunday night.
what would you do,
Discuss everything that didn't agree with them.
we'd take turns being president.
everyone would get one vote.
I always thought we'd get outvoted five to two
it never worked that way.
they would just pick whatever issue kind of was at a
we could bring up
head that week
we could bring up stuff too.
that was always good time.
we really got to know the kids well.
I imagine.
I imagine you still have a very close relationship with them.
fact, they were all in, over the weekend for Easter.
that's wonderful.
I was raised in that type of family where, you don't disobey me, you mind me
if you have a problem with what we did or how we did it, you can always come back and talk to me about it.
we did too.
I remember the one daughter saying, we had friend of hers that used to drive us up a tree
she said, I don't make of your friends
why make fun of mine?
hit us between the eyes.
You don't think of it that way do you .
was always good quality time for us.
Now that's good.
I like
that idea.
never attend,
they missed it, they had to abide by the rules.
Whatever was voted on,
boy, show up.
I think that's great.
we'd usually take notes
the younger kids, or maybe all of them needed help at one time or another.
they were usually tougher on themselves than they were on us.
they loved it.
think that's true.
I can remember times my parents would say what do you think would be a fair punishment.
we would always come up with something that was harder than what they would have done
I do think it's right that they're harder on themselves,
boy, feel for you and your husband.
why is that?
two of my,
how do you feel about it?
don't see any problem testing for random drugs.
myself, almost, am in favor of it.
I work at Honeywell
pretty, I don't know, I went through a, standard drug testing thing before was brought on.
I think that's pretty standard.
At least at Honeywell it is.
I think it's important to insure the quality I don't know, almost the goodness of character.
that kind of thing.
Where do you work?
I'm a graduate student right now at Carnegie Mellon.
just came from Saint Paul.
interviewing with Three M.
they have a policy for, testing.
make you an offer, then they'll test you right before you start.
I guess the only drawback I can see drug testing is case you are on some sort of medication that might give some, sort of false positive result
then there could
be some sort of problem.
i ,
definitely happens,
drug tests, sure they're accurate
there's always that margin of error.
something to be aware of.
Another thing is, a lot of times, they aren't that accurate.
They aren't that sensitive.
if you're on a prescription drug of some kind, what are they going to do about that .
Yeah .
I was on a couple of different prescription drugs when I was tested for Honeywell
I know they didn't catch that or else they would have said something.
I'm sure they screen for just a particular few types.
Although the literature they give with you says we do this
they list about five thousand drugs they try to test for.
I don't know.
program are you in over at Carnegie Mellon?
electrical engineering.
I'm a graduate student at U C F in Florida. University of Central Florida.
(( wow )) .
this is actually a an internship up here.
do the whole random drug or the whole drug testing thing,
They test you, start or before you even
they essentially,
I sure don't ,
made me the offer did the drug testing thing after that.
it was one of those things where you go through general battery of all their tests
they essentially give you the offer
at that point ask you to go to a drug testing and things like that.
there's some noise on this end.
I'm actually in a mall calling
Oh .
You probably wondered,
happens if you were to fail?
Then do they give you chance or two more chances?
That's a good question.
I believe from what I remember of the literature they gave, if you fail I believe they give you one more chance.
They probably give you a chance to explain yourself
and then maybe give you another chance to go through it.
once again, those things are not that accurate
there's undoubtedly a proportion of people who do fail,
(( wha , ))
are you working right now anywhere
I'm just about to finish my Master's in May and,
just interviewing with companies right now.
That was the first time I'd ever gotten any kind of drug screening, going to Honeywell.
A friend of mine is also a doctoral student down there.
he's doing an internship with I B M.
they, basically, did the same exact thing.
we both got our internships at the same time
we both had to go through drug testing at the same time.
one of those things where we went through a kind of an identical process.
they test you work too?
one thing they don't do drug testing while you're on the job.
the unwritten rule is, expect it
they don't do it.
Oh .
That's good I guess.
I don't know.
have gone to a couple of parties that time
while I don't do any drugs myself, I've seen some people who work there, smoking a joint or whatever.
that's the kind of thing that would definitely come up,
really do that.
Is it formal policy that they said they might test?
Yeah .
first, I need to know, how do you feel sending, an elderly, family member to a nursing home?
of course, one of the last few things in the world you'd ever want to do, Unless it's just, really, and, own good.
I'd be very very careful checking them out.
had t , place my mother in a nursing home.
She had a rather massive stroke
eight months ago I guess.
fortunate in that
I was personally acquainted with the, people who, ran the nursing home in our little hometown.
I was very comfortable, in doing it when it got to the point that we had to do it.
I had an occasion for my mother in law who had fell and could not take care of herself anymore, was confined to a nursing home for a while
that was really not a very good experience.
it had to be done in a hurry.
we didn't have, six months to check all of these places out.
it was really very good, deal.
We were not really happy with,
nursing home that we finally had.
Fortunately, she only had to stay a few weeks
she was able return to her apartment again.
it's really a
decision do it.
is there something else we could have done, in checking out all the places that, might be available.
Of course, there's not one on every corner,
especially, smaller areas,
smaller towns.
Probably the hardest thing my family, my grandmother, she had to be put in a nursing home
she had used the walker quite some time, probably about six to nine months.
she had a fall
finally, she had Parkinson's disease,
it got so much that she could not take care of her house.
Then she lived in an apartment
that was even harder
just a location
it was very disturbing for her because she had been so used to traveling.
she had children all across the United States
she spent nine months out of the year just visiting her children.
that was pretty heart rending for her.
I can imagine.
I think when she finally came to the realization that, no, take care of myself.
That's tough.
That's tough.
for somebody who for most of their life not just merely had a farm but had ten children
had a farm, ran everything because her husband was away in the coal mines.
facing that situation, quite a dilemma.
I think,
my mother,
Go ahead.
probably one of the biggest decisions I think that was very strengthening for our family was rather than have one child make that decision
than just delegate it.
I think that had a great deal of,
all the brothers and sisters got together
they actually had a conference.
That's great.
one of the most strengthening things for our family, getting down together and doing that.
That's right.
just the children were involved in the decision, because it involved just them.
making that decision and then finding a place
everybody had duties
to perform.
whether it was just, giving money or whether it was actually taking part in a lot,
of the decision making,
like finding a proper nursing home.
You were very,
I know.
they had seen it coming.
I, I har , I, I truly wish that if something like that were to happen that my children would do something like,
that for me.
Unfortunately, a lot of times like that seem to fall to, maybe one child in the whole family,
it's usually not a very smooth,
smooth thing.
lucky too that I only have one brother.
fortunately, we agreed, on exactly, what we thought should be done.
My mother also was independent.
She little house and still driving her own car,
at age eighty three.
We were lucky respect in that after she had her stroke she wasn't much aware of what was going on.
That nursing home life would not have been, anything of her choosing,
of course, not have been happy there at all.
as it turned out the stroke took care of that concern for us.
grandmother I think such she did not have the problem with,
she was very well aware
her daughter came and visited her
at least her daughter,
came and visited her and also her several grandchildren,
came and visited her every day.
That's great.
I think that when she passed away it was probably one of the greatest,
I think it would be,
it was more of a relief
for her.
I di , I don't know deal if one of my parents came Alzheimer's.
or something like,
That would be tough.
that far more devastating.
I think that what one thing that they were concerned probably was the fact it wasn't necessarily, like the quantity of care
but the quality of,
That the people that worked there
were very
were very interested that, to make it as close a home environment,
as possible.
It would,
I think, for myself see that as probably what everything would hinge upon.
Is it,
how close is it to a home environment.
That's right.
major question.
I think that great strides are being made nowadays caring for the elderly,
in a whole lot of areas.
Just people are, of course, populations getting older.
interesting the population of the United States is changing because, now that so many more minorities, where they have had extended families for such a long time.
matter of fact in the United States we used to have extended families.
It wasn't,
I guess as we become more industrialized and more, less in a rural situation
we, we, we choose not to deal with the,
extended family
because we feel it's kind of cumbersome,
That's right.
when in reality it makes things much much easier.
are scattered so much nowadays.
I think that the extended family, that it maybe one of the solutions to a lot of things even child care.
of course comes other issues, whether or not any of the grandparents whether (( we feel like )) caretaker for our children.
just because they're grandparents.
they raised us after all.
Just because they're grandparents that doesn't automatically make them a good child carer.
I think that, had a lot of good experiences people especially where they've had, extended family.
kind of see perhaps, we may need to get close to the family environment and
and get down to the values of,
money seems to be too big of an issue.
with, with,
realistically it is.
with what's going on today
think, I think that perhaps if we put money on the back burner
choose to alleviate a lot of the problem.
That would,
certainly help.
have as high a standard of living
of living.
That's just a matter of defining priorities, I guess
or some priorities anyway.
I think your right.
I guess that was it .
It was good talking to you.
All right.
Take care.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
the first thing for me is a couple of different ways of talking about what privacy is, if
that's one thing,
if privacy is something that comes into your private state and extracts information from it, in other words, finds something out about you that's another.
seemed invaded to me, and very much everyday in this country,
in the second time, at least overtly, where someone comes in and, finds out information about you that should be private, does not seem, obviously, everyday.
think I agree with that.
I think in a good example on the typical thing that happens, when the phone rang
it's T I calling,
my immediate reaction is that it's some sort of strange phone message
I realize, this is something I solicited,
That's right .
my immediate reaction was one of that sense of invasion
after that I realized, really wanted this
it was sort of exciting
that was almost an example of an invasion that turns out to be not invasive.
it turned out to be, an invitation.
at the same time I think that I receive the order of, probably, seven or eight a week calls of the nature where one wishes that there were a convenient way to just hang up on it.
personal parties or from these, phone answer, phone,
commercial things.
a remarkable number.
I get them rarely
I'm still astounded one, they let anyone do them and two, that they have any effect in this whatsoever .
I'm usually so insulted by them I just hang up as soon as I recognize what,
they are.
I think they prey on people's, inherent politeness on the phone even with the machine.
I find people being kind of polite and waiting for it to finish what it has to say,
they feel an obligation to respond even though there's not even a person there.
I think that's what makes one feel invaded is the fact that there seems to be little control
feeling obligated,
because of some sense the way the ritual is played out.
then ends up being most common example for me.
I guess I'm not typically feeling invaded in my privacy relative to that you raised.
I don't think I would have thought about that.
I think that's a good idea on your part.
I don't typically feel intruded the things, the sense of finding out information.
presumably those who find out such information, if they are doing it, I would prefer to not to be known,
the classic, I don't know C I A conspiracy theories or whatever, would have such parties trying to do it without your knowledge.
there's, , things that invade that second type of privacy where you do know about them and possibly things that invade that second type of privacy without you knowing about it,
I can't talk about the second one other than to generate paranoia .
It's a surmise
surmise. It is there.
I'd like to think that it's quite low, at least in this country.
I don't think I'd like the K G B monitoring my phone or anything like that.
I guess, although, that's a good point where you said that how does one define what invasion of privacy is,
because, if that's the case of a tree falling in the forest
I'm not feeling invaded then maybe my privacy hasn't been because I have no sense of my privacy state having been invaded.
if your defining it in terms of information gone even if it's something you don't know about it, then I guess one could assume one was invaded
I don't feel invaded by it.
I don't,
have a sense of threat in general from those sorts of things,
I'm not sure why.
I guess it comes from a sense of fact or facts
if someone finds out something about me that is true, don't have a sense of loss from that.
you must have a relatively clean conscience then .
other side of that might be someone found out something or surmised something that weren't true then I would feel probably more invaded in the gossipy sort of sense.
more harmed or something.
Bec ,
you don't have anyway to turn it off.
Tho ,
did you hear about this Lotus data base that was being put together?
I did.
I was just about to write a letter when I heard they canceled it.
That would be an example where my sense of threat would be high because I would find that there be, a good possibly that their facts fantasy.
I would feel not only invaded in the sense that someone had obtained information that I would rather they didn't
that might be the sense of the spending pattern, for instance,
huh, huh.
I would have thought to be private.
if it turns out to generate incorrect things, that's even worse
if my call rate eight or so a week went up even higher because ,
They had you pegged .
the person who had takes unsolicited phones calls and pays money
all of,
a sudden you get your thirty a week because now,
their advertising you.
one of the problems with the Lotus data base was, that it was uncontrolled access to who would have that information.
they said they would give it out to only select companies
just like software is only given out to customers,
you can't believe that.
be pirated
they wouldn't bother to check that carefully anyway to someone who's offering, full cash price,
for it.
you can't tell it, what a company really has to do with it
there's something rather ominous about having virtually anyone, any hacker being able to know what your income is, what your spending habits are,
that hacker just has to get with the sneak thief
suddenly what started as an invasion of privacy can be an invasion of your actual home.
I guess that turns out to be the basic problem with any invasion of privacy is whether or not you're feeling,
threatened as a result it
maybe that is little bit of what privacy is.
I also thought about it, waiting to talk to you that, another thing that occurred to me is there is not so much invasion of my privacy because I know how to behave such that there isn't.
I realized I have to behave in a certain way in order to not have people invade my privacy.
If I deviate from social norms of behavior, if I run up and down the street yelling or something, someone's going to invade my privacy very quickly.
I realize I can take that for granted
live in India
things are quite different there in terms of that.
There's less of a sense of privacy.
In fact, it's said that no Indian language has a word for privacy,
certainly the language I know doesn't,
that's interesting.
but just says a word for loneliness.
Loneliness is the closest you can come, which is really quite different.
no concept for wanting to be private.
generally being alone is not a very desirable state, at least officially.
there's not,
doors don't have latches on them.
People don't tend to knock,
you just,
if there's a door closed and you open it because it's in your way
walk in out
westerner in India, I was often surprised,
would be,
and felt my sense of privacy there was quite invaded.
That would be culturally shocking .
it very much is.
on the other hand, I realized I could go out on the street and act like a complete lunatic,
people would leave,
me alone.
Whereas in this country where everyone respects the closed doors very much, if you go out and then act like the lunatic violate norms behavior.
people start paying attention to you very much
they start asking questions and in the sense are invading your privacy although, if you know what the social norms are, quote unquote, you asked for it.
it does mean that you have yet another reason to follow a set of social norms.
which isn't always the case in all cultures,
it wasn't until I was thinking about it just now that I realized that's actually something that's culturally relative.
is true.
I haven't thought about that
that it's fascinating think a lot of someone who doesn't know how to say private.
that's really,
wonder how people have sex,
and things like that,
you go to India
, as the population goes up an extra hundred million every few years.
just don't quite,
there's hope, I actually for al ,
of the time I've spent there, I still don't quite understand how certain things that I assume and require privacy and require not just that you be alone but actually that you have a sense of privacy.
anyone can be alone for some period of time
for me a lot of what I do requires a sense that there's this invisible barrier around me which people wil ,
will respect.
if that's gone, really don't know how to live very well,
how people do that.
That's interesting.
any other specific things you feel like, you feel your privacy to be invaded on a day to day basis or either on a growing frequency?
All examples, the Jehovah's Witness Mormons or someone knocking at the front door, which is more intrusive because I have to really tell someone to go away.
there's that sense of, I have now opened my door they now see what I look like, what I live like
doing something that normally I really only invite,
people to.
I, any friend, anyone I give my number to is welcome to call me,
no one is just welcome to come by my house.
that is more of a sense of invasion.
that's another example of the invasion because of the not so ...
Hi Diana.
Hi .
Have you all been able to do much as a family these days?
Pardon me.
Have you all been able to do much a full family these days, all of you.
kinds of places,
we go out to dinner,
we take the kids to the park,
whenever my husband has time off or something, we take them to the zoo,
do everything we can possibly as a family.
Do you work outside the home?
I don't.
I don't either,
it makes it a little bit easier, I think, that way.
it does,
then, my husband enjoys spending time with the kids,
take them out just to be with them.
can have time with him
you have a break too.
try to teach our kids as much as we can at home, to spend Monday nights, we call it family home evening,
and, and, just see how things are going in our family and, teach them about their grandparents or something like that. Bring out pictures of them so they get to know them
we just do all kinds of fun things like that
we have family that's far away.
It sounds like you might too.
we do,
the only way they know their grandparents is by pictures.
phone calls that's it.
we go to the park
we go in the backyard and sit down
we mostly do, pretty simple things.
Especially since my youngest one is , only fourteen months.
really getting to the age where she's playing,
and likes to go places.
with, me being at home and just having the one income, you don't have, this lot of extra money do a lot of, extra things.
That's right.
make more fun than,
the kids just think it's wonderful just maybe to go get an ice cream cone or,
that's a big thrill for them.
or, go get a bag of M and M's or something like that,
think that's a lot of fun.
to spend as much time as we can.
whole weekends to our children except for we might go out, one evening or something,
during the day, it's all devoted to our kids
they come, go to church with us
that's true.
you ever been to the Science, it's called the Science Place?
that's what.
haven't lived here too long
we went there a couple of weeks ago
the kids thought that was wonderful.
I guess there's Science Place One and Science Place Two.
We've only been in, I think it's Science Place Two.
not sure which one we went into,
it was about a year or so ago, when we went.
The one we went in had,
the thing that sticks out most in my mind is a kids place area.
to go wild in there.
they had a lot of fun in there
some petting, like,
I think it's Owens Country Farms has a free petting, like a farm that you can go to
the kids can pet animals and stuff.
Where's that.
That's on Plano Road,
it's like in Richardson you go up Plano Road,
it's a little bit past Campbell and Plano Road .
that's a lot of fun.
They have tours going through there
the kids think that was a lot of fun, too.
that does sound like fun.
It's a little bit of a ways,
them to Showbiz
they think it's wonderful just to go to McDonalds,
they don't go for the food
they go for to play around
That's right.
There's another place in Mesquite called Monkey Business,
it's a indoor fun park
it has a bunch of different rides for kids.
That's sounds fun too.
parents get in free
it's during the week,
it's five dollars admission per child, all day.
you said about Plano and Campbell is the petting,
The petting farm,
That sounds fun
I think maybe we'll try to do that.
the one in Mesquite is, Scyene exit.
the kids just had a wonderful time there,
just pay that admission,
all the rides are free.
of course, they have all the little video games and, those little quarter rides, and stuff like that
they thought that was lot of fun.
You can have birthday parties there
I think that was better than Showbiz Pizza cause there's more for them to do.
they can just do,
you don't have to have tokens for everything.
they had a lot of fun.
That does sound like fun.
I've gotten some good ideas from you .
try to do a lot of things as a family and, inexpensively as possible,
I think, I don't know if we've done five minutes
I'm sure that will be good.
that will be good,
It was good talking to you.
it was good talking to you.
I really appreciate your suggestions.
no problem.
take care.
bye bye,
Bye bye.
with credit cards try to get maybe just one or two,
like having credit cards for every store.
I just don't like them .
What are you afraid of with them?
What am I afraid of?
I don't know if I'm really afraid of spending too much.
I just, don't think that I need them,
they are tempting at times,
just, sometimes I just don't like everybody knowing everything about me,
that's true.
everybody just gives you a credit card just so you'll spend money
that's the idea.
They figure that,
if they give you card,
at no charge for a whole year that you will use it
That's right.
they make money off of it, whether you use it or not.
the other thing, of course, is the fact that they hope,
you will not pay your bill at the end of the month,
That's right.
so that you would be paying interest.
I use mine a great deal, for groceries, for everything that I can and,
then just write one check at the end of the month,
That's what I do.
for the entire thing,
That's what I do.
Just a second.
Sorry .
That's all right.
Sounds like you have a little one there.
I have two little ones.
you have.
tha ,
How old are they?
(( )) four and two and half.
boy. Those are two very active ages .
like you
credit card for, when I,
I just use it whenever I feel like I don't want to write a check,
I don't charge anything that I can't payoff at the end of the month.
ever use the A T M machines?
I never do.
My husband does at work just to get cash out,
I take the checkbook
just, if I need cash, I just tell him
he gets it out
I don't even think I know my number .
I find it a great use from the standpoint that you don't have to continue to write checks,
in order to get cash.
That's right.
couldn't do without it, but, since he can just do it right there at work,
that helps.
for nothing .
other thing some people are not aware of, is they will use credit card like their Visa or their MasterCard for cash
when they do that, they begin paying interest right from that very day on.
You're right.
that's kind of silly.
Yeah right.
Your defeating the purpose.
they figure that, that's correct .
The idea is to use their money .
during that whole month and,
then pay it at the end of the month.
at least one or two a week.
People, sending me a credit card or calling me on the phone I just say I don't want it.
I think that's the only thing you can do, is just say no and mean no and,
It's like,
not be tempted.
I'd like to know where they determine that I'm such a good credit risk that they can go and say, you get this much credit line.
i ,
You've already been preapproved.
That's their favorite word.
Everybody in the country is preapproved, I think.
I think so, you're right.
it's interesting, that,
people have same view.
of credit cards,
no matter where you go.
some people they get so wrapped up in them that wow, I didn't realize I had this much,
That much stuff.
I'd spent this much money.
they can't meet the minimum monthly payments on it.
some people use one credit card to pay for another credit card they own,
that does nothing, but exacerbate the entire problem.
it does because you're, you're just yourself more money because can't make the monthly, minimum payment, you're paying interest,
That's right.
That's right.
it's been enjoyable talking with you.
It's enjoyable that somebody feels the same way,
take good care.
Take care of your little ones.
Good luck.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
Here goes Sharon.
, what do you think about Nolan Ryan being the first baseball player to earn a million dollars?
That's the only thing I found out tonight .
you found that out tonight?
I haven't even heard that,
that's great.
I think he deserves every penny of it.
there are some others out there that I don't believe deserve the money they're getting.
isn't it funny how baseball's getting less than football players would.
Wonder because football,
longer season, too.
a lot more games, right?
that's exactly right.
I think, let's see,
the teams that were there last year were, somebody from California,
I don't even know who won the pennant last year.
Beats me.
I know Yankees have won a lot games .
Yeah .
through the years.
Not lately though .
We have been talking about this,
I tried to call earlier,
we had made a list of all these, baseball teams and the cities that they were from, (( ))
then I started cleaning
I don't even know where I even put that paper .
Threw it away .
I was just cleaning and throwing,
Let's see.
The teams that,
I think the A's were in it last year.
The Oakland A's, and an all California baseball.
have you ever played baseball?
I played softball.
that's what I did when I was growing up.
That was fun.
that's fun .
That's a whole different sport.
let's see,
the Rangers need to go
I think the Pirates will go.
let's see,
Rangers have got a new guy this year,
I don't even remember his name either.
Do you ever go see the Rangers?
Every once in a while like to go on the nights when there's
It's a lot more fun when your not fighting a crowd.
I think it's fun,
I like just looking at the billboards.
B ,
sometimes go out there during the day, you just fry under the sun.
it's nice at night.
That's when I've been.
It is.
do you know anything about that new stadium,
have you seen all those pictures that they're going to put out there?
it's suppose to be a huge stadium
it's going to have little shopping centers in it and like a lake or something running through it.
they're going to try to make it a real community center out there.
Cou ,
your going to be able to buy your,
what was, wait (( )) about the liquor?
in, Texas stadium where the football players,
they're never going to let liquor in there.
they're trying.
I know,
they try every year
every year they get thrown out.
It's so stupid because they let you take it in there,
don't allow them to sell it there.
huh .
that new stadium's going to be real nice,
I heard can bid on that stadium
last night on the news I heard that they said bid on the stadium to have it named after you,
it's going to go to the highest bidder .
. that's the way to do it.
that could be your, fifteen minutes of fame.
You hear that? .
That's my kids turning on their music.
(( )) .
(( Holly )) turn it down.
I think it's the Bart man, the Simpsons .
God . I stay away from them.
I wish I could .
I bet you do.
where are you?
In Plano.
I'm in Garland.
you are?
teaches in Plano.
what's he teach?
C V A E.
what do you do?
I teach,
I teach for Dallas.
you do?
For right now.
I'm trying to get out.
Is that a tough system to be in?
Real hard?
I would think it,
it's good because try new things,
it's like, they'll try something
they throw it out, and get something else,
you get tired of that.
That's typical bureaucracy though.
I think it's going to be any where you go
it's just worse in the bigger cities than it is in the smaller ones,
I don't know,
sometimes the smaller ones are just as bad.
they can't be though,
they don't have as much money.
Most of the time.
gets worse in the small towns sometimes.
in Dallas you don't even know who's administration,
there's so many of them .
You don't even know who to payoff, .
somebody walks in classroom
you don't know what they're there for, when they're coming, how long they're going to be,
how funny.
it's just (( )) there they are
they're writing the whole time .
No communication whatsoever.
I had them walk out of my class and not say their name anything,
I finally just got to where I go, okay, I'm Debbie Moore, may I ask who you are and what you are in my classroom for,
you never know where they are going what they'll report
I know.
they'll tell you they've written something down,
you hope they're telling you the truth.
you never see it.
No ,
That's got to be frustrating.
it is.
How long you in Dallas schools?
this is my eleventh year.
that's about, ten too many.
actually it's,
now my job's good,
much better than a lot,
because I'm Chapter One,
all I do is teach reading all day long,
it's just ten children at a time.
that's not bad.
It's good,
you've got a lot of federal money, too.
hasn't it changed a lot over the years?
Teaching? .
working in the system.
when I first started teaching, I remember I went to my (( ))
I said, I want to see a curriculum guide,
I'll know what I'm suppose to teach
they go, we don't have one.
We don't even know where one is.
God .
I go, okay, you just, did , what you wanted to do,
How funny.
now they tell you what to teach and how long and, what day,
you don't know which is,
what period.
you don't know, which is worse.
I know which is worse.
I guess so.
being told what to do is worse.
how long are we suppose to talk for?
you can talk for ten minutes
you don't have to.
you can?
if you talk to ten then they come and say, you've extended your limit,
please say good bye within the next five seconds.
I haven't ever talked that long.
I hadn't either till last night, I was talking to this retired administrator from Cleveland, Ohio,
(( huh )) .
we started talking about gangs,
He lives in Cleveland?
everybody else that I've talked to has been right around here.
she was real interesting.
tonight this woman called,
have you taken any incoming calls?
is my second one.
hers was the first one I
she was telling me all her problems,
it went over ten minutes.
did you all not talk about the topic at all?
we did,
the topic was boring I thought.
What would you serve, if you were having a dinner party?
gosh, (( )) all the other,
the one I talked about the other night was good,
it was, about movies, what have you seen at the movies lately and stuff like that.
I could go on and on about that.
Me, too, because we go all the time,
the guy I was talking to never goes,
he was, boy it sounds like your really up on this.
I said, I see at least two a week .
that was real good to talk about that.
Have you seen SILENCE OF THE LAMBS?
You've got to go see that.
The last one I saw was DANCES WITH THE
we talked about that one too.
said he didn't think it should have gotten all those awards, he thought it was too long
I enjoyed it.
I did, too.
it was just more for my money.
I didn't think it was too long at all.
he said after about the first hour he started looking at his watch.
The other one you need to go see is SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY.
how old are your kids?
One is eight
one is eleven.
You probably don't want to take them to see SILENCE OF THE LAMBS.
not, it's not too cool for kids.
They usually pick their own.
I bet they do.
they've got it all figured out.
they want to see all the horror movies.
and Ninja Turtles.
Ninja Turtles, got to have those.
most of the time really we watch them on the video.
you brin ,
Don't you?
Just massive rental.
heck, that's a lot cheaper then,
Going to,
taking them out to the show.
I know.
Especially if you get them for a couple of nights you don't have to watch them all in time.
That's what we do, especially when it's bad weather, man, just,
plug it in.
Of course, you have to get there early if you want to get anything,
I know .
It's good when you go to Tom Thumb though
they're cheap
nobody has got them yet.
That's true.
Unbelievable .
That's true.
We saw, HEROES HAVE ALWAYS BEEN COWBOYS, tonight.
It was okay,
it was kind of slow,
I felt like it kind of got chopped off at the end,
I don't know,
not going to be around long,
it will be a dollar movie in no time.
Do you read?
Not very much,
I don't have the patience to read .
I do that to make myself go to sleep at night.
my Mom and Dad read all the time.
You saw FIELD OF DREAMS, right, a long time ago?
sure did.
I was reading the book,
it's called SHOELESS JOE.
It was so wonderful.
I like this author,
I got a, book of his short stories,
that's been real good.
Who author?
ask me .
Oh .
The GHOST OF SHOELESS JOE was the name of the book.
Shoeless Joe.
Was it like the movie?
in the movie the guy was black,
he wasn't in the book,
that's one difference.
There really wasn't a lot of difference.
I didn't,
I never even heard that there was a book tied in with that movie.
That's interesting.
That was a good movie, too.
do you think we covered baseball?
I think so .
have a good night.
who's your, favorite team?
Who do you think?
The Dallas Cowboys.
The Dallas Cowgirls,
they did have a fairly decent year finally this year.
At least they're coming around.
they're going to get better.
I think, once Jimmy Johnson gets his system established, they'll do all right.
As long as Troy doesn't get hurt again.
That kind of killed them at the end of the season last year.
even know who your favorite team is,
I'm a Viking fan.
I think I did know that, I just forgot.
they haven't been doing too hot,
Has Herschel Walker done much for them?
the Cowboys got the best end of that deal.
he was a good player. I guess,
I don't know,
he just never,
I don't know,
for a while there (( )) ,
I've never been over impressed with him.
six or seven tackles and just keep spinning around and get on into the end zone.
I guess you never could really see him play, because with the Cowboys, while he was with the team, the rest of the team was pretty poor
you couldn't really tell if it was just him or the team
I always just assumed that he was too good for the rest of the team.
I don't know.
who's the running,
is it Sammy Smith,
is it, Emmett Smith.
Emmett Smith,
Emmett Smith.
N ,
he's been doing real good.
pretty impressed with him so far.
actually play in the Pro Bowl.
I remember he was a backup
somebody got injured
he was supposed to go.
I'm not sure.
haven't been keeping up with football, in the fall
can go on and on about football,
since it's kind of off season, it's kind of hard to think back about all that.
Who else is,
there's, Mike (( )) ,
Minnesota Vikings, used to be the general manager starting the World Football League.
was trying to keep,
I can't even think of the guy's name, either, the coach of the Vikings.
I have no idea.
Bu ,
Jerry Burns.
No earthly idea.
him as the coach somehow,
I don't know,
I'd like to see the Vikings get revamped somehow.
How did they end up this year?
make it to the play offs at all?
they started out really bad,
they went one and six,
they won five or six in a row.
they were in a shot to make the play offs
they screwed up the last couple of games.
Kind of like the cowboys,
I guess you can,
Except I think the Cowboys are on the upswing .
I don't know about the Vikings .
Just hadn't heard much about them lately.
the Cardinals were kind of like the Cowb ,
in fact they were doing better than the Cowboys,
the came on strong at the end of the season,
the Cardinals got killed by the Cowboys,
the Cardinals, I don't know.
I think the Cowboys probably have better team.
They just,
at the end of the season, the kind of got messed up with Aikman getting hurt, because, Laufenberg just couldn't ever really get it together at all.
Of course, he sat along the sidelines all season,
he never really got in a game, never did a whole lot.
don't made any excuses for him .
I'm just saying blast him like that, say, Laufenberg got out there and blew it for them,
he didn't get to see much action. But, too bad.
he had a shot didn't look too good
no one's going to have much faith in him any more.
In fact, I think they're getting a different guy for a backup quarterback.
kept up with it lately,
I remember reading something a few months ago about them signing somebody else on, trying to go after somebody or trade for somebody,
it wasn't anybody I'd really heard of.
I heard on the radio this morning, or yesterday morning, that, Aikman's back in practicing, doing real, real well.
who is it, Michael Irvin
(( )) he said that, Aikman was hitting him right on the numbers every time.
sounds like he's going to be all right for next season.
They're just trying not to overwork him right now, until he gets his shoulder, back in shap ,
it was his shoulder, wasn't it, that he had the problems with?
I don't know .
I think it was .
was his shoulder he had surgery on.
anyway, they're trying to from reinjuring anything, but anyway .
I got my thirty day notice yesterday.
Thirty day notice for what?
I'm done, where I work.
anyway, I guess we can't talk much more about that,
I just thought I'd throw that in there .
maybe I'll call you back the recording is finished.
I think we have talked about football for five minutes.
I can't remember.
w ,
I've always ran out of time ever since I've done this.
I usually have, too .
They always say you've talked your ten minute limit.
I've done that once or twice.
I didn't look at the clock when we started talking,
I guess we should talk about football a little bit longer just to be sure we got five minutes in.
Make sure we get our cash flow.
other than the Vikings, who do you like?
when I was younger, I was a Cardinal fan, too.
Remember Jim Hart?
Jim Hart was playing.
Terry Metcalf was on the Cardinals.
This was a long time ago.
I don't know who else I've ever.
That's about it,
I was always a Viking fan.
I think I was into the Cardinals for a little bit
Back when they were in Saint Louis?
of course.
Since they've been to Phoenix they haven't been, all that impressive, I guess.
I guess I've always been a Cowboy fan.
Other than that, grow up in a city that has greatest football teams until the last few years, you kind of tend to get caught up in it.
the Cowboys were America's football team,
there's no question about that,
was really exciting,
growing up the Cowboys were really big.
my parents would always have season tickets,
they'd go to all the games,
the hype were just unbelievable.
It's just, the last,
I guess probably since about eighty four, about eighty five was when they started kind of going downhill really,
I'm just used to always growing up and hearing Cowboys, Cowboys, Cowboys, and, Super Bowl, and all this other stuff.
I can't,
I'm not going to decide I don't like them just because they're having a few bad years.
I think they'll pull out of it,
wind up being good again.
They've got of really good young players do pretty good, I think.
they're raising prices on their tickets.
they're banking on doing good next season.
I think tickets are,
What are they going up to, thirty bucks or something?
Thirty, or thirty two for really good tickets.
sectioned it out even more.
They used to just have
first of all it was all one price.
they sectioned it out to end zone and then everything else.
now they're sectioning it off twenty yard line to the other one,
just on the lower levels is the highest price,
the next highest price is that same area but above it on the upper level,
from the twenty to the ten yard line.
they're some sections kind of in the corner areas,
the cheapest of course is going to be zones.
they have about four or five different prices now,
that they're structuring it with,
obviously they're all going up, (( )) more or less is what it's going to do.
now the tickets even got lower than the lowest one last year.
I'm not sure,
I'm not positive,
really think about that.
I just remember trying to figure out where you could get
that was real close to the good section but in the little bit cheaper.
not that I'll ever go.
I hadn't been to a Cowboys game,
I went to the Cowboys game was during that, N F L strike, or scab in there,
it was the, Dallas and Washington Redskins game.
I went because my dad can usually get a hold of some free tickets, because a lot of those doctors have season tickets,
not going to use them they'll give them to somebody else.
to a game that one time.
that wasn't a real,
the scab teams,
different, I guess.
before that it's been quite a few years.
I've been wanting to go to a game,
I just have gotten around to it.
maybe this year (( )) .
(( That's interesting,
I almost lost our electricity here )) .
what do you do this weekend?
pretty much spent most of my time either in the yard or at nurseries buying stuff for the yard.
Which is,
you for your yard?
we just bought our house, last July,
the house is forty years old
an established lawn and whatnot, flower beds, things like that,
gone a few years of neglect.
we're in the process of, revitalizing the whole situation.
We've got, different flower beds in front and, trying to get some color back in those, get the trees trimmed up, get rid of a few weed problems and things like that.
What part of the state do you live in?
I live in Dallas.
My wife and I, we live in Dallas too,
just what that area,
we're planning on moving to Flower Mound,
we're going to be getting some wheel h ,
we're going to have to do a lot of lawn and garden work there.
Seems like it.
the place we've been living at, just leasing it.
the soil a high clay content,
that, I went to use my dad in law's tiller and it about for my arms off,
I'll bet.
sockets .
I'll bet.
scratching two or three inches was just a chore.
when it gets wet, you don't even want to get out in the yard,
it's horrible.
It's a nightmare.
I don't know
where you live is there a real high, alkaline or (( ash )) content
it's pretty high alk , w ,
it's done,
it's in the north end of Oak Cliff in, Kessler Park area,
we've got about,
I know right where that's at.
got eight to eight inches to a foot of soil,
it's solid rock from then on down,
it's, a little aggravating, ,
put in anything too big, as far as, shrubs and things like that because (( they've )) got to get a chance to cracks in the rock.
it is.
solid limestone.
How do you put trees in there?
happy that there's trees already there so far,
anything like that a, major undertaking I guess,
sprinkler systems or anything, start to get real expensive because there's an awful lot of work that has to be done chopping through the rock.
it, even, a pool or anything like that,
practically has to be blasted in I guess.
for different challenge,
I've never,
moved to Dallas about five years ago,
I never really, messed with anything, gardening or anything like that until now,
keep hearing all the stories different parts of town.
In fact, at the farmers market yesterday and bought a few tomato plants and things like that,
the first thing old guy there at the stand asked is what part of town we lived in because he said, a dozen different varieties
each one works in one part of town
that's it,
. That's basically what he was trying to tell us.
tried planting tomatoes last year
turned out pretty poor.
I just wish I'd known variety and everything.
amazing we also have roses,
they just grow so beautifully.
that wou ,
in fact, we put in more roses yesterday.
type roses?
hybrid tea type varieties.
hybrid teas.
have a few, of the real short stem.
of like the bush roses.
I don't know only has about five or six more years to go because really old bush,
I'm amazed because the sun is so intense,
the roses just seem to survive just fine there.
all the different lake editions around the house
kind of experimenting right now.
the direct sun in front
the backyard has two great big, spruce an oak tree all about forty to fifty foot tall
the backyard is just complete dark all day long.
struggling to find something for those areas.
a lot of tree surgeon work on your trees or not?
in pretty good condition.
pretty lucky on that.
just if you want a lot of, light for underneath,
that may be all right because (( we have )) some old fruit trees.
We have a plum that's just about ready to go,
we may just be getting rid of that
our peaches seem to be doing just fine,
really need pruning.
It just seems like even, pruning once a year is really not enough
way they behave.
That's true.
That's true.
I don't know.
what kind of grass are you growing?
It's, bermuda.
been trying, a mixture of, the bermuda and the rye,
I may be working like a fescue in because of, the type of weather.
It seems that, fine
it looks like it would hold the soil
it really doesn't.
A lot of, silt that comes in it just doesn't seem to hold it very well.
the rye does really well. Especially during the wintertime.
once it gets over seventy, seventy five degrees just dries up,
shrivels up and dies.
through the year.
parents in law building a house into the side of a hill,
it's already been built and everything.
They've been living there for about three months now,
this is out in west Texas,
wind there, has been so bad that, they've tried to plant grass
they just, , have some problems,
(( that's it )) .
big time problems
they just,
they just (( washing )) , watching their lawn just blow away.
quite an undertaking.
They have about two or three acres of land on lake front property,
side of a hill.
It's beautiful,
you can see the house from, miles away,
a pretty neat little job
but just, for them, going to have to start gardening.
It's going to be from the ground up.
The whole way.
they said, we just plan on spending the rest of our lives just, , getting this property developed.
It's amazing,
the, all they have are and cottonwoods,
all on Lake (( Greenbelt )) ,
that property out there.
I don't know, what they have,
they have all the water they want,
they can pump water,
they have to get permission
they can pump water up from the shore,
that's for an additional,
they have to pay some kind of fee per year.
trying to get the trees planted and everything.
just think of all of the money going to have to spend just getting that.
the taxes alone there, Lake (( Greenbelt ))
some places, they really (( nail )) them for tax.
your talking what, just several hundred dollars a year in property taxes.
That really is,
it seem like it be just the opposite when you get,
it's not it's,
even though it's far out there, it's just that Lake (( Greenbelt )) , try to do it just from selling the water.
the water usage, they try to limit, even though there's three or four streams that flow into it, people still use it enough towns like Clarendon and other areas where they irrigate.
they still haven't gotten used to the dry land farming
that's true that,
the because it's gotten so bad the past few years,
I don't know
I just came back from there
just the air is so dry.
I don't see how anything can survive out there,
for long periods of time.
(( Should say ))
my father in law says the mesquite trees are, pretty smart,
they're smart,
they're about the smartest tree around.
even start growing until May,
that's true.
May or April, after it's been raining for a few months.
That's true.
They say the roots have developed
that's all they work on.
Just a leafy,
they don't do anything.
that's something I've looking around and noticed all the flowering trees and stuff are,
at this time of the year
we're trying to decide to, what to put on one side of the house and things like that,
there's so many things that last for just a couple of weeks
just bush there from then on.
don't know
wife and I, south side house we planted some gardenias.
they did real fine during the summertime
it's just,
during the fall when it stopped, when, the rain let off just a little bit just dried up.
I guess,
it's like they remain ...
do you feel about the immigration laws?
currently, I think they are a little restrictive. particularly for, certain ethnic groups or from certain countries.
I think we should permit, more immigration from eastern Europe, for example, particularly Jewish, , people from Russia.
I think we could permit more of them in than we have permitted in the last, several years.
I think we have, too much restriction Orientals also,
of course, that's just my opinion .
I'm not real sure why I got this topic, because I don't think I checked it off on the list
because I know very little about the current immigration laws.
we seem favor certain, countries particularly South American countries.
there is no,
I have nothing, of course, against, South Americans Hispanics, in that sense,
I think we, are more restrictive of the, so called eastern, European countries than should be.
Of course, that's from my own bias since my ancestors from eastern Europe,
I think, the, embargo we placed Russian Jews, although we (( )) spent years and years, lobbying for their release and their ability to, immigrate from Russia
as soon as that occurred, we simply said that, instead of the, hundred and fifty thousand or so who wanted to immigrate to this country, we cut that by, two thirds.
I do not quite go along with that,
that doesn't make a whole of lot sense.
I still think,
again, kind of having, within this century, come from immigrant family, or immigrant families on both sides.
Both my mother's parents and my father's parents were immigrants
I'm a little touchy every now and then about that .
family is from, Europe England and Ireland
and, have been in this country for, more than a hundred and fifty years
my .
almost two hundred years,
I don't have relatives familiar with their names and how they fit into the family.
born here
I don't have any real strong ties the immigration laws.
I don't have any personal feelings about them
I haven't taken the time or effort to learn what they are.
I think in a way, though, I also have, an opposite point of view, which is, although I believe we should, permit, constant immigration into this country
have, some quotas,
of course, my family and I,
that was,
my grandparents came over during the time when, there were quotas.
they had to wait, in, certain parts of Europe for years before they were permitted to come over.
I think unrestricted immigration, I think, best,
I agree with that,
think if immigration was entirely unrestricted, not only the United States become awfully quickly, I think would bring in a lot of, people that are, run out of other countries or in trouble other countries.
I think they'd come here trying to find a new market for brand of crime.
there's another aspect of this, too.
They're also, diminishing the, health restrictions which,
I was not of that.
There some, regulations over,
I don't know whether they're laws passed whatever they're called, just recently, where, people with certain diseases cannot be excluded, from, immigration.
Age is one, for example,
recently, tuberculosis, which at one time, if you had tuberculosis you could not get into this country
they dropped that also.
I think ways we are, becoming a little too egalitarian sense,
I think we should be a little more circumspect about it.
Again, my opinion .
Think we've talked long enough?
I think so .
All right.
I've enjoyed talking to you.
I have talked long enough.
Okay .
Thank you.
Good bye.
how are you today?
I'm great .
as a matter of fact working on my P C at home.
Do you have one?
I don't have one at home.
I work with one work
I do not have one of my own at home.
Do you have,
What do you have, at home?
We have an,
it's a T I computer,
it is the I B M
It's not the T I P C
from back when.
From the oldies but the goodies.
It's probably pretty close to what I have, because I have the same kind of thing at work.
I have a three eighty six S X which is T I computer,
everything I B M mode.
that's what we have.
Do you use it a lot at home?
I really do.
I, am an accountant
I work at home.
you're on it a lot.
I use it for that quite often.
We have, used some of it for some personal things.
We keep track of personal budgets and things like that on it.
since it's tax season, I'm doing a lot of taxes,
I do that work on it as well.
I was amazed when I took our taxes to our tax person
she works out of her home also.
the, software that does the taxes is just incredible.
it is.
she just,
I expected to go and, drop the stuff off and go back two weeks later.
she had it done and out in twenty minutes on her little P C.
you can.
It was great.
you can,
that's right.
That's wonderful.
I have often thought having one at home would be neat.
I just don't know if we would really use it that much.
We really,
to get one until I started working at home.
we thought, we can use it for, some personal things.
We di ,
for us it really took, a business application
to justify the expense of it.
I know my stepfather bought my mother a little personal computer, I guess, probably three years ago for Christmas,
it's got some stuff on it.
It's got a nice little word processing software on it, and some budgeting type things and stuff.
I don't think she's ever touched it
seems like a lot of trouble for something at home.
she always seems to have better things to do than to try to sit down and figure out how to use her computer
She could just as easily do those things by hand.
just as quickly.
Now I know my boss has bought the software, checkbook is
on a disk,
he goes in his checks on the screen and then hits print,
they print out on the checks,
he's ordered envelopes with the windows in the right places
my gosh.
he just whips, out,
I saw him yesterday morning over there,
he paid his monthly bills,
he just, wrote all the checks on the screen and hit print
it printed out ten checks,
he just,
they're perforated,
he just ripped them off.
They go through just a continuous thing on the printer
he ripped them off and stuck them in the envelopes
there they went.
he said, I can balance my checkbook in seconds,
because it's all in the computer,
there's not going to be those adding mistakes that we all make.
That's exactly why.
used to be I always sat looking for those,
He said this way there isn't any.
it does it for you.
there are advantages to it.
It's just a matter of, like you say, does it justify the cost, if you're using it strictly for personal business.
Right .
think in most cases I'd have to say no.
Not unless somebody really enjoys it.
Or perhaps is using it for education.
I have a four year old son,
we have some education programs that he likes.
A little Sesame Street one
we have another one that plays music,
he really likes that one.
As he grows up he'll be even more and more too.
That's right.
That'll be great.
now I think about it,
I guess kids as they get older,
especially now
when they get to junior and even college.
my sister went to college, started about three years ago,
she had to have computer.
it was like a necessity.
She couldn't imagine going through college without a computer.
I'm going through right now.
I'm, going part time in the evenings,
I do,
everything has to be typed.
they require it.
You have to type it
I'm up here, nights and weekends working up here, typing stuff.
I can see where it would be a great advantage to have one at home, if you were going to school.
any more I don't even know a typewriter .
I don't know.
Probably not even,
they probably used to have it.
I just finished major research paper a couple of weeks ago,
I couldn't imagine not having that thing on a disk
where I could go back in and move stuff around and change it.
don't know what they used to do before they,
in our family, my husband and I went through college together
he went on and got his Master's degree while I was working.
I'm the better typist,
of us,
we just had a regular old typewriter, not even a correcting one back then.
It wasn't that long ago,
you had to type all of his papers.
I typed his Master's papers and things on a typewriter.
boy, to have a computer back then.
cut your time in half at least.
At least.
At least.
of course you have some changes to make, and do the whole thing over.
You take out a sentence,
on a computer you take it out, print it out, fine.
Take out a sentence on a piece of paper,
You do the whole thing over.
That's right.
I remember when I was working in high school, I was working in an office, right after I got out of high school
I continued working there for probably another year.
we did everything on a typewriter
it's amazing,
then, when, someone would have you type a letter,
they were,
The first time.
they sit there
they go, is this really what I want to say,
you typed it
that was it,
now, people just send it back over and over and over and over.
That's probably one of the problems and frustrations that it's brought about, because people do feel like, we can just change it.
we'll try this out and see what it looks like.
use it as
instead of knowing what they want to say
before play with it, in a way is nice to be able to do,
gets a little out of hand sometimes.
I've seen it get out of hand up here,
where we've got a secretary that sits over here that's keeping metrics right now, and keeping up, of all the letters I type, of them do I make changes on. And on each letter, what types of changes.
Are they typos?
Are they because I couldn't read it
people just change word because they think it sounds better, or whatever.
she's also keeping of letters am I retyping for whatever reason.
there's one week, she did retypes on ninety percent of what she typed
I believe it.
the high week,
it's running about seventy
which is still ridiculous to have to make changes to seventy percent of everything that she types.
it's good that she does that, bring it to people's attention.
that's exactly right.
she several weeks' worth of data and then in addition is keeping copies of all the changes to show, look, this didn't really need to be changed.
this is ridiculous and changing, add this time to now.
that's the kind of things, that she's keeping and showing, that, this was a big waste of time, it was a waste of paper, it was a waste,
to change something like that.
Anyway, help in some way,
I don't know.
definitely even with the few disadvantages like that are far better than the alternative.
I have to,
Without a doubt.
Without a doubt.
I would like to get one at home some day.
We've got a two year old son,
some day I would like to get, even just the video or something like that, just be able to pull in sources from outside would be wonderful.
Especially when they're in school, I think they would get a lot out of it.
I do too,
I do too.
The on line encyclopedia just sounds wonderful,
that sounds like such a great idea,
it'd be kind of fun to be able to play with it.
I know, my father had a P C,
when we were in high school it was always fun.
We could, link in,
I don't even remember now what it was called.
you could link in and all over the country,
you have your own little code name,
you'd type in du du du, Hi how are you, du du du,
they'd type back and everybody,
you'd have five or six or seven people talking to each other at the same time,
everything everybody said prints out on your screen as they're typing it,
it was just great fun,
It was very expensive, because the whole time you were on there you were on long distance,
It was like a
long distance phone call.
we were each limited to twenty minutes a day,
that still could add up.
it added up big.
were divorced
the time we were visiting our father in the summer time,
he felt like he could splurge and let us do it.
I'm sure we would not have been allowed to do that under normal situations,
when you're doing the guilty father complex, because he's not there to watch us grow,
you can kind of get all kinds of stuff.
That's sad.
it was nice to talk to you.
you too.
Have a,
Have a nice day.
You too.
Bye bye.
First of all, I want to tell you I have two little kids,
they're not in public school yet.
get, I get that experience starting next fall
with kindergarten.
you haven't really, dealt with that in a sense.
being one of these late in life mothers, I've listened to everybody else's,
complaints as to the matter with either their kids or the school system.
I've been surprised.
do you have school age kids ?
mine are both out of school.
in hindsight, seen some things that I wished that, I had done something about that was, within my power or, wish that in some ways we, as parents, had more control over
Such as?
what's happening up there, type thing.
just over the years there were situations that, came up that I didn't think were fair or handled correctly
the teachers didn't seem to be teaching anything.
Of course, it's a little hard to tell from the information that you get from your child,
bring things home
I was never one to believe everything my kids said,
about something.
still questioned the ability of some of the teachers to, really do a bang up job,
yet others I know are just wonderful.
I heard frightening thing.
I didn't hear it.
It was told to me or suggested to me, that to work as a teacher in the public school systems in the state of Texas,
I think it's similar many other states, if you have a degree in a technical field you do not need a teaching certificate because there is such a shortage
of, people to teach math and sciences.
somebody said, you could go in substitute teach at seventy five dollars a day
there's always going to be, somebody having a need for a math or science teacher.
I thought, they're letting me in,
I don't know anything about it.
That's pretty interesting because just,
just because you know a subject matter
Right .
doesn't mean you can teach it.
even if I knew how to teach the subject matter, I don't know if I'd know how to handle that kind of group of kids.
In fact, I think one of the big problems today is way the kids behave or act the way they are sometimes disinterested in what's going on in the class and disruptive.
I tell you what I'm finding frightening
this comes from, aging hippie near forty mother.
I went through this period of supposedly, cosmic social enlightenment.
the Plano school system and living in Richardson,
there is a real dichotomy in terms of educational and economic background of the kids that are going to be attending this school.
I used to think, that's wonderful.
they can get a real life experience.
What I'm seeing now, in terms of kindergarten preparedness, just from, in different preschools
it's like day and night.
I wonder, how do they handle a child who is obviously very ready and another child who doesn't even speak English, let alone know her colors.
they're in the same classrooms.
I guess also you're going to see the first of the, crack kids starting kindergarten.
My God, I think it would be next year is what I'd read.
I thought, weed those out?
Some of those certainly have a lot of with, all sorts of things,
I would imagine their learning disabilities are quite large in some cases.
When I was listening to N P R, the National Public Radio,
they've quoted statistics that my throat just about fell into my toes.
They said at the bottom of the S A T scores of graduating college seniors are usually those people that go into education.
wow .
That's encouraging.
got to thinking back when I was teaching college chemistry, the people that took, the lower level courses, I sometimes wondered, are they really even educatable or trainable
my God, i ,
are the rest of us who went for the big bucks, staying out of, where maybe we should be kind of socially obligated to spend some time teaching or something with
these kids?
I don't know .
an idea.
Maybe there need to be some radical changes made.
Do some things that are totally different and unheard of.
sit here
you think about that.
At the same time you think, I hope I don't sound like a stage mother because,
right now if you ask my friends t , put twenty mothers in a room and ask them how many have gifted children, you're going to have twenty hands, up there.
you're kidding.
a nongifted child.
I keep thinking, gifted Einstein or, musical prodigies.
not a kid who's, precocious.
You know, what has the educational system been watered down to that anybody who's above average is now gifted?
I don't know.
That's interesting.
I don't know.
Mine fall into the gifted category .
don't say that.
I would never had said so either.
they managed to get through, although not always with flying colors.
in fact, one of the incidents I was thinking of that my son had. he was struggling with senior English
I had a meeting with the, vice principal and the English instructor,
she showed me a paper that he had just handed in.
she told me what she had requested.
I read it
while it had, a few little grammatical problems, it wasn't very long and so forth.
I thought it had some nice, well thought out, parts to it.
She gave him an F on that paper.
I thought, now, here you have a student who is trying to pass, who is struggling with your subject
you give them an F on something that doesn't seem that bad to me.
What are you telling that student?
You're telling them that, you might as well forget it,
I think harks right back to the elementary and junior high years.
I have a stepson now who's twenty five
I was just absolutely shocked, the first time that I saw his schoolwork.
I remember being, taught,
I think, you have to teach how to write an answer and, how to construct a thought process.
grasp the points.
Can they convey the data verbally or in writing.
that's what's, really scary to me.
I would really,
there's such push among young mothers these days to make sure their child is computer literate.
I would really think that they should be stressing more can the kid write a thought and at an early age.
if they can't, if they have missed that training, then somebody, before start penalizing them with bad grades for not being able to communicate what they're thinking, teach them these basic skills.
It's pretty sad to think, about those who, even today, are graduating from school
they are telling that they don't know how to read,
my stepson, he went into the Navy or Air Force.
I just really get my military,
I married into a military family,
I don't know,
I them all as generals
I don't offend anybody.
fortunately for him, he wasn't dumb
he sure had trouble, putting things paper.
one of the things they did for him. They tested him
they said that he's, great in electronics
he, really does need the basic skills.
they put him through six months of composition writing in addition to all his electronic training.
at that point, he has now graduated from warfare electronics school with honors.
This is the kid really, barely
made it through high school.
I keep thinking, too late at any point to do, some ,
That's interesting that the military saw that and did something about it.
You would have expected them to be the last ones to .
I kind of have always pooh poohed military educations.
I think that for this kid, it's going to be, his lifesaver.
Otherwise, he might have been driving trucks or framing houses, from here to eternity.
I don't know.
it does make me nervous.
I can see why if you've got little ones just coming along.
There's whole lot of stuff going on out there.
There is a whole lot of stuff going on out there
part of me says I just would like to, shut my eyes and pretend it doesn't, go on . Or send them to private schools .
old social conscience says, I'm not working, I don't need to work.
Maybe I should volunteer to, teach what I know.
Maybe adult literacy. Maybe, composition writing. Maybe, volunteering, on a tutor line or though elementary schools for help with homework
the other part of me says, is God, I've had enough kids .
Do I reall , .
What type of lawn and garden work do you do?
I do it all .
I see.
Do you have a garden?
try to grow, a vegetable garden
We do the same thing.
ten feet by five feet.
I have two plots,
one's ten by ten
one's fifteen by four.
I see.
It's a long skinny one
you do a lot more area than I do.
all the rest of my is, pool and decking
it's all the dirt I have,
I see.
left in my backyard .
I see.
fiddling around.
It's cheap entertainment.
it's nice to get out in the open air.
It is,
especially when the weather's not too hot or,
That's right.
not raining or whatever,
I enjoy,
sometimes I,
go ahead.
I sometimes I wish I had more space
I grow a lot of things, a lot of food.
sometimes want to plant something, there's not enough room to plant.
That's right.
That's right.
Some of those things like, the things that vine cucumbers,
or, squash or something,
like that.
Takes a lot of room.
Plant one of those
it takes up your whole space .
It sure does.
I made mistake one year and planted some cantaloupe,
my goodness,
what a mistake that was.
just run all over,
They do.
the place, don't they,
it was very good
it just takes up, like you say, a lot of your garden area.
(( )) .
It's the first and only time I've done that.
We don't do anything exotic
we just do,
The basics.
tomatoes, bell peppers,
radishes and turnips, not turnips, carrots, beets and things like that.
That's what we do too.
My wife used to plant a few snow peas.
I don't really care for snow peas.
she just plants a few for herself.
got a few peas out my garden a couple of days ago.
Did you really?
The first one, they started them indoors this time.
I read it,
I see.
We don't start anything indoors
just wait until, the weather warm enough to stick it in the ground.
guess you can get an earlier harvest by doing that,
Probably so.
you can get a head start on it.
sure is a heck of a lot of work.
I guess
you got to,
watch them every day,
and keep them watered
don't think I'll do it again .
them taste better I'm sure.
I enjoy it.
I come home from work
I usually say hello to wife and kids,
and then go out and fiddle, just walk around the yard and
You got to inspect it,
inspect it
the kids want to swing,
I push them on swing.
my own lawn.
have a sprinkler system.
don't enjoy watering.
this is the first home we've lived in we've had a sprinkler system,
it is really nice,
it sure beats dragging hoses around.
you can have it come on just early in the morning.
That's right.
off time you're up and about.
That's right.
It's really nice.
usually get it started for my wife
moves it around ever other day.
I'll have to admit my own yard.
really don't enjoy doing that.
I enjoy having a nice looking yard,
I just don't enjoy the work,
that it takes to get it done.
I had a lawn service to do my yard for me
during the real hot summer months, until I retired
now lost my excuse for that so I have to ,
for the last couple of years I've done it myself.
Sometimes I wish I could get one of these, chemical services to come,
out and spray for weeds,
and fertilize,
and all that and take that one step out of (( )) .
they want too much money.
It is kind of expensive,
it is.
Of course, the chemicals themselves when you buy them, they're expensive too.
it's still be quite a bit cheaper to do it yourself.
That's right.
If I have a problem discipline, I think,
boy, I really need to get out, and apply something,
I screw around and don't do it or wait too long or something.
the weed come up,
That's right.
all of a sudden you've got to do something else.
That's right.
kind of bad about that.
I enjoyed having a lawn service
now I have the time
if you,
want to spend the money for it.
enjoy it too,
can get out in the morning it gets hot and,
That's right.
and do it and stuff,
I'm not limited to,
when you only have to,
just mowing it on Saturday morning,
I can do it on most any day of the week.
When the days start getting a little longer,
start doing it in the evening after work.
That's right.
switch to,
when we get an hour more,
when they rollback an hour.
That's coming up here pretty soon.
Is it this weekend?
I don't know.
It's pretty soon.
I really don't know.
It just seems like I here it on the news the day before.
think it's coming up here soon.
I believe it is too.
Are you having any trouble with bugs your garden?
not a whole lot,
don't use, seldom use anything harsher than seven dust,
I don't really like to put a lot chemicals on it
again, I don't want the bugs eating it upping either.
it seems like they come in spurts.
One year I didn't put anything on
I didn't have any problems.
Next year I was planting some broccoli some of those, they're called cabbage,
cabbage loppers,
or whatever.
They were just covered with them,
I went up,
I didn't go out there for about three days,
went out there one day and the plant was left but a stem,
That's right.
they devoured it that quickly.
They really go through it,
they really do.
have a good appetite .
they would,
picked off twenty of them
cutworms will do the same thing to your tomato vines too.
Ye ,
Boy, they'll strip,
They got that, what is that safer soap,
B T spray this,
I've been watching them every day
seen any signs yet.
if I see any signs I'm going to spray them,
I did something a little bit different this year that I haven't done before,
I've got,
my garden is shaped that I can,
it's kind like this, box shape,
I got four pieces of two by twelve and joined them together and just made a box.
And put in a whole bunch eight hundred pounds of topsoil and manure
various other things,
the good stuff.
Raised it up.
I'm hoping especially with those big tall sides on there it that maybe less of a bug problem
at least have a hard time crawling up the thing.
my backyard sloping
I built a box up,
had to build the one, the low side up.
I had sandy loam hauled in.
I had a dump truck come and dump it.
On my driveway, I guess, that's what they do
I had to wheel barrow it in.
you can improve your own soil there
the Texas soil isn't the greatest,
That's right,
gardening soil.
have to work on.
really do.
if didn't wait five years for it to be good enough grow
you know what I mean .
That's right.
When we had our pool done I had them to leave some extra loam, for my garden
a lot of loam out there to start with
I just turned it all up and mixed it all up together
a rotor tiller?
I don't,
I did it by hand,
Small enough,
you have a,
just do it by hand?
It wasn't too much of a job,
Like I say it's just,
I'd like to get one of these little small ones,
that you see in all these gardening magazines.
It would be handy.
it weighs twenty pounds or,
something like that.
My neighbor across the street has one.
He always uses it to dethatch his lawn,
I see him out there,
I guess it has a thatcher attachment to it.
It might be handy,
They're pretty neat little,
I've never seen one.
I have a friend who has one
he lets me, no problem borrowing if it's,
just a hassle
to go up
it's a fairly large one to,
heave it up into the back of the van,
huh .
bring it home and,
check it back and just grab it, if I, just go to my garage and grab it.
That would be neat,
That would be nice.
We've had a garden, for years and years and years,
of some size,
I can't remember a year when we didn't have one of some kind.
What have you got growing right now?
you know tomatoes that are starting to bloom
I've got some radishes up,
as a matter of fact, I've already done a second row of radishes.
the green onions are coming along.
what kind,
what kind of onions do you grow?
Do you grow ten, fifteen Y?
for the first time we planted them this year.
are the best.
We tried to find them last year,
we screwed around and waited too long
I couldn't find a nursery that had any of them left.
we've got some this year.
Snow peas are up
my wife does, a small herb garden on the side.
I see.
They're up and doing fine.
those onions, I think, planted twice as much this year because, we got,
they lasted from, a month from now or so,
or six weeks,
from now,
we really missed them when they were gone,
because the ones from the grocery store just can't,
That's kind of a,
let down.
She made these onion rings that were so good,
I bet,
they were.
you don't realize how many dishes you put onions in,
That's right.
We use a lot,
that it's an ingredient,
we sure do.
it was just like everything you put it into tasted so much better.
One nice thing with onions bell peppers at least you can chop them and freeze them if you have,
too many.
We froze a lot of peppers.
We let some turn red.
We did that too,
some we do green
my wife puts them on pizzas.
chops them up in recipes
and things like that.
makes a colorful salad too.
Put them in salad,
making me hungry here.
We planted some yellow peppers this year.
We've tried it,
we haven't had much luck with it we're going to try it again this year.
Yellow peppers,
They have some little buds on them hopefully they'll do something.
Sounds like you have a real good garden.
We enjoy fooling around with it.
Just let me see what I got,
I got the peas
I've got some broccoli, onions radishes and, beets.
we've got some beets,
I planted potatoes too.
I've never done potato.
We used to do it at home when I was a kid,
the potato,
had a huge garden.
you don't that much for the space,
Some beet, potatoes
(( )) I've got some tomatoes still growing,
I see.
I got to wait for a place to free up.
kids love pickles
we all love pickles
we're going to try to grow our own pickles this year.
That will be neat,
We've got some good, Hybrid Burpee
pickler cucumbers
we're going to try to see if we can pickle our own
That will be neat,
have you seen how much pickles cost in the store?
they're expensive.
I know it.
I said, why are they so expensive they're just a bunch of little cucumbers,
I don't know unless it,
labor intensive or something.
I really,
I guess.
don't know.
we're going to try that,
That will be interesting.
and see how that works.
An experiment.
I'd like to something new,
every year that,
I haven't tried before
That's interesting.
I'll let you go it's,
All right.
are you on an exercise program now
I exercise pretty regularly.
I lift weights quite a bit.
I run occasionally.
Let's see what else do I do. Play golf some,
I work out hanging bag.
I'm brown belt in karate,
keep up with that a little bit.
How about you.
the only exercise program I'm doing right now is walking.
I've got a nine month old,
I'm four months pregnant with my second,
at the time, walking seems to be the best.
It's something I can do with her, plus, doesn't tax me too physically.
I have enjoyed aerobics in the past,
I enjoy that because I like the group association, like exercising with other people.
that's my favorite way to exercise.
that's neat.
I do walk some too.
My wife's about five months along
she's been walking quite a bit,
that is a good exercise for that.
it's nice to do it together, too, I guess.
My husband and I use to walk together,
our schedules don't coincide as well as they used to,
we very seldom get together to walk
work out, do you pretty much do it on your own schedule,
do you go to groups
do it on my own schedule.
We used to try and belong to clubs or the Y, stuff like that,
it was so difficult to go on a regular basis, to drive the distance you have to go.
Save the fees,
we've, just save the fees and buy some of our own equipment.
you can do it whenever you want I guess.
I've got a weight bench,
we got my wife an exercise bike,
I use that sometimes too.
It's a little more convenient,
not as dedicated if you don't drive over to do it.
I guess it depends on the person, depends on how motivated you are.
my husband used to work out three days a week at the Texas Instruments gym.
I would just go on Saturdays.
since the first of the year neither one of us have been going.
I guess, like I say, we've been paying these fees and not going,
it's kind of a waste of money if you don't take advantage of it.
I think you really have to be disciplined.
try to work out at least a couple of times a week,
I think you really have to, at least twice a week, just to maintain the shape that you're in.
With the walking, I think they said you need to walk at least twelve miles a week for it to be aerobically beneficial.
They have babies that are about the same ages mine,
we've been walking every morning going
when it was cold we would go to the mall because you can't take the babies out
very easily.
go, we fifteen miles a week,
the last little while, for one reason or another, we haven't been real consistent.
So it's a little harder when you're depending on other people to do it with you
because you have to meet their schedules as well,
I enjoy doing it more when I've got other people with me.
I usually do it because I want to, because I know it's good for me, not because, I don't feel obligated to do it.
I enjoy it.
If I feel too obligated to do it,
I start to rebel,
I won't be as consistent with it.
I understand.
Did you exercise between your first child and your second?
I exercised pretty well up I was pregnant,
I started having pains.
I've calmed down everything except, I was working out doing aerobic exercises as well as the, walking,
I had to stop the aerobics because it was just kind of painful.
the T I rec center has an aerobics program prenatal and postnatal aerobic type thing.
I was going to wait until, about my sixth month and then start that.
I did that with the second baby,
I went to my exercise class one day,
she was delivered the next day.
it would seem to be real beneficial.
speeded up the process and all that.
I think it made parts of it a lot easier.
is this your first that you're having?
then I don't know how much you've been through it,
I think parts of it made a lot easier.
I've talked to a lot of ladies that exercise with one pregnancy and didn't with the other,
they said one they had exercised with was three or four times easier.
having both of them natural, the first one was natural and going natural the second,
it's not as bad as I thought it would be,
I think the exercise helped.
that's good.
do you work with T I?
I don't.
wife has been working with them.
then she could go if she were interested.
I think, that's what the class that meets on Saturday mornings.
she could find out if she wanted to go.
It's kind of fun because with the first pregnancy all the other ladies except one were on their first pregnancy,
they would talk about exercise and just general things relating to the birthing process.
for us it was educational as well as exercise beneficial.
At least its something you enjoy.
I know a lot of people that talk about exercise and say, I don't want to exercise, it's too much work.
there's a lot of different things you can do that are enjoyable that you don't have to strain yourself or sweat
That's right.
or be real sore afterwards.
sometimes if you get a little soreness you feel like, I've done a good job because I myself to that point.
I guess that you don't want to overdo.
, have we reached our limit?
I'm not sure how long we've been talking
I think we've talked about six minutes or so.
it's been good talking to you.
Been good talking to you as well.
I hope your baby goes well
comes out well.
Yours too.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
what do you think?
my no would be.
It would probably be somewhere closer to, less control because I don't see,
I'm not a member of the N R A although my,
father is.
I think the N R A has gone overboard the wrong way.
they're sitting there on number ten,
they're saying absolutely no gun control,
we don't even want to think about it
I think that's a dumb,
there has got to be some kind of background check to see,
that the people who are buying a gun are buying it for a useful purpose, you're going to hunt with it,
if you're going to do sport shooting you can wait a week.
That's true.
It's not a big deal for them to go.
If they're can check your drivers license every time you get a ticket, they should be able to go back and find out if you've had any kind of psychiatric record,
armed, felony record.
That's true.
any of that kind of stuff.
it seems to me right now that that much of a check.
not really sure what Texas law, I think there's a check for (( )) felonies, on your record.
If the gun shop owner does it,
he has to go out and do it.
That's true, I think,
it's a private sale, of course, then there's nothing.
that's my only problem with,
making you,
get the check and everything I guess bad guys, if you want to call them bad guys,
they are going to get a gun no matter what.
They're not,
I don't think they're going to go to a gun store or pawn shop and get it the right way when there's a check,
I think they're going to go out and find it someway, individual sale or something like that.
maybe we'll prevent a few John Hinckley's.
I hope.
That's true.
the kind of people,
like I say, I don't think the guy who's going to rob a Seven Eleven, is going to rob a Seven Eleven whether he has a gun or a knife, baseball bat,
or, whatever,
He's going to do what he wants to do.
That's true.
just think it makes honest people more honest
the people who want it, it's not that big a deal, like I say, to wait.
Right .
if you have to have it in a hurry, something's wrong .
it makes you wonder,
what they need it for all of a sudden here.
That's right.
That's right.
I'm married to a policeman,
talk about this a lot .
imagine opinion is a little bit towards the one there,
on the
scale of one to ten he needs some more.
I was watching a,
if I was a cop I would be,
worried about that.
Too many people have access.
they do.
They do.
the other thing that we ought to control to some extent is, there should be some law against the types of gu ,
some of these Saturday night specials that these companies put out,
they're are
basically it says here buy me and go rob a seven eleven
little toy guns look real.
really gotten bad
I've heard so much about that on TV
that's kind of scary to think that you may be shot for holding one.
Or your child
If your child is old enough,
there are a lot of kids who when they're ten look like they're twelve,
or fourteen especially some of the minority children. Whether,
a racist or not,
that's the truth.
if some of them are doing something that they shouldn't be and then they have one of those toy guns in their hands
a cop comes up,
you can't blame them.
It looks
You can't (( )) ,
like they've got a weapon.
Jeez you can't take the chances.
That's right,
there's been kids that age who have killed people.
there was a law Oregon, where they've now made all toy guns,
they're making them neon colors.
I think, that's a good idea.
the kids don't care.
That's right.
My kid didn't care.
I know.
He picks up a stick and goes bang.
It doesn't make any difference to him.
A gun is a gun to them.
Yeah .
They can play with anything and make it a gun.
That's exactly right.
you like to do,
I think they ought to do that with toy guns,
they ought to make them very reasonably
do something outrageous to them.
that they're not very distinguishable from a real gun.
That's right.
That's a good idea.
I was, watching T V yesterday
there is a town in Georgia,
it's the law that you have a gun,
every adult, is able to carry a gun,
That's kind of (( )) ,
they encourage it.
They encourage it?
the police love it.
Which really surprised me
I think, that's what they were going after, they went to interview this town,
it's a little dinky town,
they went to interview them about the gun control laws
that's fine we could care less.
we're all honest, and everything like,
all carry them,
don't mind being checked.
I think it kind of took that neatness away from it,
heck, everybody's got one,
I don't know.
quite unusual to see the people in that town.
That's kind of an odd thing.
I don't know,
I have a gun
my folks have always had.
I learned to shoot when I was real little.
I think that's a lot of it too, is that people need to teach their kids,
and what not to do.
a little air B B gun,
when I was probably five or six years old.
it was,
this is how you hold
this is the only place that you do it, which, was,
out far and away
you don't ever touch it unless I'm here,
you don't
That's what we're doing.
you don't point it at people,
they had,
then they went to the Texas Parks and Recreation, I guess,
anyway the program,
that you have to do now.
I think it started in about nineteen seventy.
to go deer hunting
your birthday's after nineteen something,
fifty five or something, then you have to attend one of these hunter safety courses
that's neat.
you can't get a deer license.
that's real neat.
basic stuff,
it's like, when you're climbing over a barbed wire fence, don't point, lean your gun against it,
and then you crawl over it,
and shoot yourself.
that's real good.
those things happen.
is always incredible to me the number of times those kind of stupid accidents happen to people.
they usually are real basic,
put the safety on the gun.
common sense things.
it's loaded.
got to be the most common thing that people,
I know
people don't want to believe that.
it's empty.
I took the clip out, or whatever
I forgot about the one in the chamber .
In the chamber . That's exactly right.
trying to teach our daughter.
She knows real well her Daddy's guns,
what not to do and what to do around them.
Does he got them locked up all the time too?
When he's (( )) ,
she, she's real,
she'll know,
she'll even tell her friends, don't ever,
Don't even think about it,
touch my Daddy's guns or something like that.
good about it.
she's never been curious,
cause he's always,
if he has them out, cleaning them, she can be there
he'll tell how he's doing it or, show her the insides or stuff like that.
if you make it where it's not something,
to be feared
not something to be curious about and not something to be totally scared about.
just one more piece of something,
got to understand, like you said, never touch it.
they'd have that respect for what it does,
and what it can do.
Ours is a,
we have a shotgun,
it's up in the closet,
the shells are in another part
it's something to think about,
I got it because my husband used to travel, and be out,
he was out of the country at one time for three months.
I was like, I live in a nice neighborhood,
but still,
still .
I've got it so far,
sometimes if not about to load it because assume that the kids are not going to ever get up there,
it's in a case,
put up
it's away and all that,
I don't want to take the chance
I think, if somebody ever does break in,
He's got to go to a lot of trouble.
it's going to take me a year to find the shells,
and then get it,
hold on,
hold on ,
He's in here somewhere,
I know he is.
I know how to use one.
go hunting every once in a while
he showed me how to use his guns
I really enjoy it
boy if someone did break in, know that I could or would even grab it .
I know,
used to think about that,
it was a lot easier single,
it was one thing
when I was just married with no kids,
That's true.
when it was just me, it was an easy decision.
It was like, come after me, you're going to get it.
now there's so many other things, where are the kids, what are they doing,
where is this person coming in from,
you've got,
you manage to get it out
can you even afford think about you're going to do because you don't know where your kids are,
at the same time.
have dogs
that are protective, .
We feel if they make enough noise that,
if they're stupid enough to come through then .
we have two big dogs in the backyard,
and always kind of thought that too, kind of an extra buffer.
They've got to be pretty stupid,
most people that, break in or whatever, go to houses without the dogs,
Anything, that the,
advantage that they can take.
that's one of them
Guess it makes it worth the dog food over the years .
Really does.
do you think we've,
think that's about all I can,
Me too, on gun control.
in pretty good agreement actually on it.
I think we are.
to be some of these people who are at the other end of the spectrum.
I'm glad you're not .
Me too.
I'm glad to find there's another reasonable person in Garland.
it's been nice talking to you.
You too,
Bye bye.
Bye bye. .
What kind of lawn and garden work do you do? .
right now the place where I'm living, the yard was basically neglected for about the last twenty five years,
I've been trying to rebuild and reestablish the entire lawn,
after three years of working at it, been amazed at just what a little bit of doing help out things to the lawn has really brought it back.
Instead of mowing in the same direction every time, changing, lawn the long way, then you'll go the opposite way, instead of going lengthways, you go width,
it helps the grass come back.
does it really?
I didn't know that .
been working on it for three years?
three years.
What have you done? .
Killing lots of fire ants.
I was firmly convinced the entire,
front yard was nothing but one gigantic ant mound.
huh .
it was like, even stand still out there.
I can barely hear you .
Is this better?
a little bit, .
It was like you'd go out in the yard to water something, you'd just be standing still.
the ants would start crawling up your legs.
It's like, I'm not standing in a mound, though.
How did you get rid of them?
Dursban Two.
A chemical called Dursban Two,
Dursban Two,
it's a crystal.
Dursban will get rid of just about anything, I think.
you haven't had a problem with that, since?
not bad.
once in a while you'll have a mound pop up,
that's, to be expected.
kill anything else it wasn't supposed to?
Not really.
as far as I can tell it hasn't killed anything it wasn't supposed to.
Even the area of the grass that was underneath and around the mounds
it didn't kill it.
that's pretty wild.
we used it for fleas.
We had fleas in our yard real bad last year,
we did that
basically, I like to mow the lawn, believe it or not,
I sometimes have problems starting the mower,
a lot of times I won't get out and do it,
my husband, basically, does most of it,
he does the, edging and all that kind of thing,
we're renting,
we don't really put a lot of money into the,
this lawn could probably stand a couple of loads of dirt, and some Saint Augustine.
have winter rye out back,
we have,
I don't even know what it is out front,
ever lived in,
we're just not real into the lawn probably because we're renting, I guess,
it, anyway,
you said you had problems with fleas last year in the yard?
Right .
We were getting,
I found one thing that, it's kind of a weird thing to say to put out on the lawn,
every time I've done got , drives the fleas completely out of the area.
Powdered sulphur.
I wonder why it does?
don't have to put a whole lot out,
just if you've got a broadcast spreader
I think it comes in a forty pound bag,
it's real fine, like flour
you just
go out, and do the entire yard,
don't have to put clumps of it,
just very lightly cover the entire yard.
I'll have to remember that, because hopefully we won't have them this year,
we have a cat that comes in and out,
the cat was getting, fleas and stuff and bringing them in the house,
we had a real problem last year with fleas,
it was quite a drag because, we got them in our house,
we're Christians,
we prayed that we could get rid of these fleas,
we got rid of them, believe it or not, with smoke bombs, which is just about impossible to do,
we did,
we don't want them back this year,
I'll remember that if we see it's a problem in the yard.
we're almost,
they were so bad last year, even ticks.
I don't know,
we've had ticks before a lot,
we've had to get out and treat our lawn for that.
and Diazinon and get out there and do what you do with that thing, and spread it all out everywhere,
that's about the extent of our lawn care.
I don't know,
do you enjoy doing it?
I love it.
My wife can't understand
it'd be a hundred degrees outside, I'll be out there.
it's too hot to be working in the yard.
I'm under the trees,
I'm having fun,
I'm stopping to drink water,
what's the problem? .
not everybody enjoys it, though.
Everybody has a different thing.
I kind of enjoy it
my husband doesn't .
I kind of have to,
sometimes I'm too busy to get out there and do it,
doesn't really enjoy doing it,
he'll do it,
he doesn't gripe about it or anything,
I'm kind of like you
he's kind of like your wife.
in that he doesn't really enjoy it,
I would like to have a garden,
that's my thing,
right now where we're living we have the trees where their, roots are at the top of the ground everywhere over the ground.
I don't know what kind of trees they are,
you can't have a garden,
you can't till it,
tear up a nice tiller .
we're going to wait until we move.
We don't have a lot of sun, either, because it's big trees back there.
we're going to wait,
when we move that's one of our priorities, is to get a house where we can have a, garden.
I'd like to do that.
I have a feeling I'll be out there all the time taking care of that,
that's our next thing .
Do you have a garden?
I've got, the,
this is the neat thing about the place we ended up at.
Sitting on about a two acre lot now,
half of it's,
the back half is my garden.
are you kidding?
That sounds fun.
Where do you all live?
in Missouri City.
wh ,
side of Houston.
Southwest where?
Southwest Houston.
we're in Dallas.
I guess I assumed you were here.
that's neat.
that's what we want.
We have a,
that's really what we want,
we just haven't been able to do that yet,
one day we'll be able to do it,
I'm excited about it.
I don't know anything about it,
I have to learn,
you'll have to give me a call on gardening .
What do you do in your garden,
I'll go nothing,
what should I do?
anyway, I guess that's about it though.
It sounds like we've covered all the bases
I guess we'll let you go,
do you have anything else you wanted to say?
it's just,
I've had an conversation with you.
I know, you too.
I hope you have a nice day,
you too.
we'll talk to you later.
do you believe only fifty percent of the people actually vote?
I think it's somewhere really close to that cause I think a lot of people believe that their one little vote is not going to make that much difference.
they really don't listen to any of the issues anymore.
they feel like so many of the politicians are crooked,
they figure why go out and vote,
They're going to do what they want to do.
They're corrupt anyway .
I think one of the good ways of solving that is a party so have a voting party in communities and have the issues there and then everybody go vote together and then maybe come back over and have brunch or something.
that's the only,
thing that I can figure out because I've heard so many people say I'm not going on voting on that one, going to go fishing today. Or it won't make any difference I don't vote
I think it does.
We vote every time.
does make a difference.
so far,
as having a party and then all voting, when you have different precincts, (( )) you would have to have a party in every precinct.
people have to vote in different areas
not everyone votes at the same place.
I, personally, think that we need to do more along the education lines in the schools and the children from the little ones on up, with the idea of value of voting and the purpose of voting and that one vote does make a difference.
let them have some mock,
elections and stuff
and vote for different people in their classes and start really young.
That's a real good idea.
they doing that in a number of schools.
However, probably not enough of them, country wide.
it's going to take at least a whole generation of people, to get across the idea of voting.
just like it's taking a whole generation of people to finally, realize the harmfulness of drugs and
hopefully now with the many programs throughout the country on,
how to resist taking drugs.
How to say no to it and what have you.
perhaps we'll finally get the youth weaned off of it.
I know I,
I spent thirty four years in education here in the Dayton area
in nineteen fifty one the police were telling us about the drug dealers outside the school and how they were just giving away their marijuana, giving away their heroin and what have you, to get them started.
that was in fifty one.
That's forty years ago
that it was already a problem.
it's now, to the forefront
people are finally taking some action against it.
the thing, neglected the value of voting. And
and what it really means to vote
we also don't make issues perhaps in language that people fully understand them.
I don't know how it is up there
down here, Louisiana has a bad reputation for their politicians and all.
I'm sure you heard about
some of ours.
people are just,
it's like they're turned off on voting.
that's the reason I said maybe if you had something like a block party.
we're going to have a block party.
Everybody's going to get together.
We're going to discuss the different issues and stuff
we're going to go and vote,
We're going to go vote
maybe they could give something like, the top neighborhood, if you had a hundred percent in your neighborhood or something like that,
like sign that they would put down at the end of your block.
or anything like that
really bad here.
to me it is.
It seems like people just don't care anymore.
They say, it don't make any difference,
One crook is as good as the other one.
they don't bother to listen to what any of them have to say.
I know my husband now we go vote every time.
I don't care how small the ballot is, E I
mean, if there's one thing, if there's one issue,
the way I feel is if I don't vote, then I don't have any reason,
to gripe.
To complain about it, right?
I hear so many people saying I wish this would change, I wish that
they didn't go vote.
That's right.
would start when little kids and start letting them vote and learn how to vote
That's right.
and all. the importance of it because, if you don't vote for your friend over here, your friend's not going to have a chance.
(( Tha , ))
He needs your vote just like he needs everybody elses,
Maybe if they were brought up that a way, like you said, it would.
I know here, until you get into high school now then they had the voting machines
you voted for cheerleaders
and different things like that
they should start that a lot earlier.
it's the same way with everything in education though.
It should begin right down in the first grade.
your very best teachers in my estimation should be first, second or third grade. So that the children develop good learning patterns
you have some success and want to go on learning and continue learning,
and not wait until they're in high school
it's too late to try to change them around at that point.
everything should be started on the lower levels
certainly if the youngsters had that opportunity that, understood that the principles of the country were established so that everyone would have a say and everyone would have a vote and what that vote meant
right from the standpoint that people do have a negative attitude towards politicians.
perhaps it's because our campaigns have become so terribly expensive to run, that only the most wealthy can do so.
they're not always the best person for the job.
(( Right )) .
they have the money to be able to do it.
there are a lot of problems along that line also.
perhaps the Government,
a good for the young kids like that too, is to have mock one.
candidate tells
you some things that are going to happen
this candidate tells you
some things.
then this percentage of the voters, the kids in that class, they are not going to let them vote this time
they have to do whatever these people, whichever one the other people
elect do.
If they did something like that and started kids out real young and showed them, now you're not going to get to vote
going to have to do what that person says,
they would understand probably by the time they were
in high school,
they'd be ready to vote.
That's right.
I think, that's an excellent idea.
They would put them to realize their going to have to do what someone else says even though they didn't vote for it.
And that maybe they need to think twice about voting.
Now some
people object during primaries, having to declare a party, whether Republican or Democrat
you do that in the primary.
I don't know that, a lot of people vote in primaries for that very reason.
they can declare anything they want
they can actually (( rig it )) .
If they really wanted to vote Republican, they could go in the primary and say they were voting Democrat and then stack the ballot for someone that perhaps the Republican could beat.
just a sad situation
I do think more needs to be done along that line to help to, teach the more about what is going on with voting and with nonvoting.
So that, some more intelligent decisions.
it's going to take these young
I think that sounds great.
it's going to take whole generation of my feeling, before that's going to be accomplished .
they'd have to start when they're real young.
That's right.
it would have to be a child that is just coming into school.
I'll tell you another thing too now.
I voted, I never voted in high school because there was never anyone that showed us how to use the
voting machines,
now this sounds dumb,
I did not know how to use those voting machines
nobody ever showed us or anything
I didn't vote because anybody that went in there and they asked a question, all the other kids
laughed at them.
They thought that was funny.
she don't even know how, (( wah, wah )) .
there wasn't any way I was going to go in there and vote.
such courage you wouldn't believe
to go vote the first time because I was waiting for somebody to laugh at me because I
didn't know how to work the machines.
sure it is.
Now that's bad.
I was out of school.
I was a married person.
I didn't know how to work the machine,
it really scared me, really bad.
I thought all these people are going to laugh at me because I don't know how to work this machine.
Where had a class or something or just (( said )) this is the way,
opportunity to try the voting machines,
the way it's going to be.
my son was exactly the same way that I was
I didn't realize it until, his senior year.
I asked him something about vote cheerleader ?
he said, I didn't go vote.
He said, there's no way I'm getting in that machine.
then I realized it
when we went and voted the next time, I asked the, lady, I said I want my son to come in with me
she said why,
He'll have to come back out.
I said because I want him to know how to use
one of these
I said, I won't turn any of the buttons down
I want to show him how to use it so that he'll be
able to vote .
he went in
now he's a
registered voter.
he would not vote
before then.
I think that's bad.
Sure it is.
here I was.
even, of course there's a lot of years between the two of us,
even with that many years between ,
what kind of car are you thinking about buying next?
do we currently have,
I have a Subaru, G O X T.
What year?
Eighty eight.
I have a ninety Honda Civic,
I'm ready to get rid of it .
(( it's not )) pretty old.
an eighty eight that I really liked
it got wrecked,
I bought a ninety, because really liked my eighty eight
I've had a lot of problems with this one,
you think their quality control's going down over there, (( kind of )) ?
kind of funny,
I know a lot,
I think we're going to see that I think, that the quality that the Japan carmakers had is slipping a little bit,
while American carmakers are trying to get their,
put together,
it's definitely true because,
that's one reason
had no problems with my Subaru,
that's one reason I went with it because Subaru had a good reputation, for, low maintenance,
Honda does too , that's why I was really,
no question
you have a nineteen,
(( I've got to see if )) ,
I've seen and I've had friends that have, eighty one or eighty, Celicas,
those things just keep ticking.
can rack up hundred fifty K on them,
That's true.
they're still beating on them,
That's true.
it's just amazing
they got,
they're not making them like that now,
not at all.
a lot, I think, definitely better than the American carmaker (( system )) .
definitely agree with you there, , because I had, Ford T Bird before I got my Honda,
it was the worst car I've ever owned ,
that's why, I was so tickled with my Honda
it was just a wonderful car
it got wrecked
I wouldn't even look at another car ,
I just went and bought a Honda, look around or anything I just said that this is what I want, ,
I really have had a lot of problems with it,
I don't know.
maybe you need to unload it on somebody el , .
I'll probably hold on to it since it's still under warranty
in the first twelve months that I owned it, it was in the shop an average of about once a month, ,
it was in the shop about twelve times the first twelve months .
that's a lot.
it was,
I was really disappointed because I was, so, hyped up on Honda,
what's your next purchase supposed to be?
I know this,
(( really )) ,
if you had a choice of your car, what would you get?
going to sound really strange, ,
I really like to have a Mazda M P V van, ,
I really like those
I have kids,
I'm not sure I'm real familiar with the body style on that.
They're a lot,
I don't like the new style, like of the Toyota van,
and new Chevy Lumina van,
I don't like those styles, the M P V is more of, just, normal, ,
I don't know how to explain, more of an old fashioned type.
not sure how to explain it,
it looks, I guess, kind of like, the Chevy Aerostar or Arrow,
(( no,
what ))
I guess,
(( okay,
yeah )) .
is what it, something like that,
I used to really like the looks of the M P V because it looks more like a mini van rather than I think,
a family?
I have a couple kids .
that's probably influenced maybe (( a little bit )) .
yeah, ,
I know that it's got to have a radio, it's got to have air conditioning, ,
I'm sure you can, relate to air conditioning .
living in Arizona,
cruise control and tinted windows, that's about it, .
it's got to have those things, otherwise, I don't care.
when I bought my car, it was right out of college
(( I always been )) looking for something sporty
I ended up getting, basically something that I could, afford.
The only gripe I have is performance.
I probably,
a few girls that I've gone out with, I've had, Mazda R X seven's and stuff
pretty fun to drive,
I think that's what, going to have to get next time around,
upgrade now if I wanted to
it's just such a huge expense
just going to keep holding off
(( I'm )) definitely going to look for something, in the, nice, perpor ,
Sports car .
I'd like to have a sports car too,
it's not practical for me,
Yeah .
I'm in,
are you still there?
There's some kind of problems.
are you still there?
This is,
something's wrong.
Wonder what happened.
I don't know,
it sounds funny though, doesn't it?
I'll probably,
it just depends,
I know that's what I want,
I don't know if I'll get myself to spend that kind of money,
you're looking a new R X seven or, a Supra or something,
you're looking at twenty five K or something,
at least,
that like
I know,
new cars aren't cheap anyway,
Anyway my ultimate car though, one that I really want is, five sixty or so, Mercedes,
maybe someday .
those kind of dreams too, don't we?
What I'd really like to have ,
That's the only one that I,
early on that says, , it says, you there?
This is strange.
I think,
something's wrong with this.
I hope it's recording .
I hope it's not my (( )) ,
, you there?
Yeah .
It may be my phone,
anyway it's the only car that says, sporty and class,
you're right .
kind of what I'm,
at the other one my brother's got a Miata
those are fun.
those are nice,
cute cars .
red Miata,
he actually,
they came out with a European racing, green, Miata that's a limited edition,
they're only going to make three or four thousand.
he went out
he traded the other one in and got this one,
I haven't seen those.
(( I'm like, )) , I haven't seen one (( yet )) either
supposedly they have some real wood built in to the clutch and all this and the steering wheel,
very authentic
there only is supposed to be limited edition so it a good investment.
If it,
worth something later on.
I think
I got off my pace or my cordless phone,
hope it's not going bad, ,
it's going to (( bump )) me out.
only spent, the low twenty's
I don't know.
to be a lot more than that for something that's limited edition.
I don't know,
I think the demands gone all, down a little bit.
I think you can,
the prices aren't as high,
Miata was first introduced,
(( )) , they weren't really that bad though when they were introduced were they?
Wh ,
the demand is so, high that, they were going to retail them around standard,
you get your options,
your looking at fifteen or si ,
That's true.
there were, people were buying them for nineteen and twenty,
may have gone down a little bit
they're still pretty much in demand.
I think there's another car coming in,
it's supposed to come out and compete with that Miata,
I can't remember what I read about that
so, that's (( )) ,
I would think somebody would try to compete with that because it is very popular,
it really is.
Have you seen the new, Dodge Stealth?
the Mitsubishi,
real nice one .
three thousand (( G T )) ,
is the
the Mitsubishi is real nice looking too,
those are nice .
that's the same manufacturer
(( )) , they just market them.
supposed to be very performance power, they're,
The expensive ones,
there is, big time.
they have a cheaper model too that you can get for about seventeen thousand,
those are pretty stripped,
there's nothing,
there's really,
that one's just more for looks,
it doesn't have really the performance that the expensive one does.
I've seen one of those,
it's not that great, because they really,
I think only around, twenty nine K.
the ,
they have, (( better )) ,
it's not quite as nice for a little bit less.
they're not really that bad
I don't know,
like I said still not practical for me .
I have a hard time looking at cars like that because I think, now, there's no way I can do that .
I'm being single
no other responsibilities for yourself, I guess, it's, I can,
I can, I've been pretty happy,
haven't tried to upgrade myself right now,
that's, have, get something nice and upgrade
consulting right now,
I just made my first job (( hop )) about eight months ago,
What do you think about the, Peace Corps or public service commitment?
that's the first I've ever heard of it.
I haven't heard too much about it.
I think it was, thought up when there was so much controversy about reviving a draft
people said, who were drafted have to provide military service to the country,
there are an awful lot of young people who would benefit from, some sort of public service,
like the Conservation Corps back in the thirties or, various other things of that sort.
it seems to me that not a totally bad idea,
I don't quite see how they'd make it work.
How would they decide who goes into, building fire breaks in Yosemite National Park and who goes to Saudi Arabia?
my first impression was, it would be good.
I think it would be good for people to serve,
I don't know if it should be an option.
It would be great to have some of those organizations like you mentioned that were during the Depression or coming out of the Depression available for kids.
I think there are some available now where they are able to work,
making it a mandatory thing kind of,
difficulty would be in whether it's voluntary or involuntary.
the people who were proposing it said that it should be involuntary, that it should be like a draft.
some people would get military service
some people would get civilian,
service, like working in hospitals.
I assume it's the kinds of things that they had conscientious objectors do,
when people were drafted and they refused to serve in the Army,
they were allowed to do hospital service or, things like that,
if they re ,
farm work in World War One I remember
reading about.
I suppose that there is, justification for taking everybody if you take anybody.
I just really think that the difficulties involved in paying them, sorting them out, assigning them,
training them would be insurmountable.
It seems like you'd have a lot more objectors if they had that choice.
it's a possibility.
much rather work in a hospital to go war
I'm sure most young men and women would.
I think that cases they had to be, pretty thoroughly examined to prove that they had pacifist and religious beliefs and so forth,
that this wasn't something new just to keep out of going to war.
It was, something that was a fundamental part of their philosophy of life.
that makes sense.
you run into, again, the bureaucracy in running it.
how you going to
cover that many people because we've got a lot more people now than we did then
in addition to that, we have the cost because you have to pay something for,
their room and board
you have to pay them some kind of a stipend,
even if it's the Peace Corps where they don't get most of it until they come home,
you pay them something.
Plus the training involved.
that would be expensive in most cases.
(( )) ,
I had a lot of friends who went to the Peace Corps, back in the mid sixties
it really did seem to be a worthwhile organization,
on the other hand, I'm not sure what the permanent value of it was.
I don't,
know what we got for all the money.
We had an awful lot of idealistic people who went off to, what was then East Pakistan is now Bangladesh,
and to, Algeria and to, Southeast Asia and lots of, out of the way places.
I don't know if they really had significant effects in the places where they went,
in teaching the people how to cope with their lives better.
I know in,
I personally took a year and a half and went as a missionary and taught Christianity in Japan.
I was living such a stringent lifestyle that it was very beneficial to me.
It taught me not to be so self centered and to think of others.
I don't know if I was doing it in different situation, not a really religious background, I would get a lot out of it.
I think I did because emphasized that sort of thing.
a lot of
self evaluation.
it was definitely voluntary, too.
They were not drafting you and sending you,
against your will.
would make a big difference, too.
(( you've got )) ,
what about a voluntary program?
Do you think that would be a good idea?
like I say, I know that there are some type of programs that they have available for to go and do, work in the national parks and work in, neighborhoods to clean up and that sort of thing.
I don't know what organization it's under.
I don't know if it's a government run or if it's a private
I don't either.
charity that's put it together.
I know that that helps a lot with training and,
out here in California,
a lot of,
there's a program like that for, juvenile delinquents, ones that are not dangerous
they don't have to be locked up go to these, camps.
do forestry work.
They maintain trails
they, put up signs
they do fire prevention work and (( certainly )) things of that sort.
that I know is run by the State,
there may be other things.
I'm not so sure what kind of, training that is for the future for those kids.
how much benefit,
It's probably a,
it'll do them in the long run?
a very good way to keep them off the streets and out of trouble,
whether it's something that they can put economic use later on is a different subject.
especially you take child that's from the inner city and then put them in middle of a park,
if they go back to the inner city, they may not see trees for a while,
That's true .
much less be able to take care of them .
Good point ,
benefit them in the long run.
I'm sorry,
I'm going to have to go,
my other line is blinking.
thank you.
it was good to talk to you.
You, too,
bye bye.
your most recent one that you've seen?
what I do,
I haven't been to a movie theater in probably eight or nine months,
I haven't really seen any movies in the movie theater
I rent probably four or five movies a week.
I used to do that too,
I haven't been doing it lately
We've got a good video place out here
gosh, I'm just trying to think of all the movies I've recently seen.
AIR AMERICA
see, I haven't seen that one,
Have you seen WILD ORCHID?
is it good?
it depends,
do you like, steamy movies .
not ye ,
I know that sounds funny coming from a woman,
usually I don't .
what type of movies do you like?
action .
Bu , d ,
guess movies is probably LETHAL WEAPON and LETHAL WEAPON TWO.
two of my most favorite,
they're just really good movies.
I liked BIRD ON A WIRE.
And movies like that.
Do you like suspense movies
do you like, just action
some, I guess like,
what do you mean
are you talking about movies like DIE HARD TWO.
JAGGED EDGE,
JAGGED EDGE was a suspenseful one.
I liked that,
that was pretty good.
Or, FATAL ATTRACTION.
that was okay,
I guess I thought it was too far fetched
so many people said no it wasn't,
I guess,
I hope I don't run across them.
that's true because,
I don't know,
I just didn't find that one to be real,
just thought it was too far fetched.
What was your favorite all time movie?
gosh, think off my head.
Do you know which one yours was?
have to say that probably the one movie that really threw me back the most, that I was really the most in shock with was probably, STAR WARS.
When that first came out, I really did not expect the special effects or anything like that.
I guess, out of all the movies, never been as excited to go back.
I was ready to go back and see it again,
you're right about that,
really like an all time classic.
I don't think could ever beat that.
Now, also liked, GONE WITH THE WIND or some of the classic, like THE LAWRENCE OF ARABIA
I've never seen that.
you haven't?
should I rent it?
Should I go rent it tomorrow .
that's a real interesting movie
it's got a good historical perspective to it.
That's probably something I need to see right now because I'm taking history in school .
it'd probably be a good thing for me to see.
I just saw a movie, called THE LOST CAPONE.
it's about Al Capone's brothers.
Primarily one of his brothers,
I won't give whole plot away
really a good movie.
Al Capone had three brothers,
one of them was lost for many, many years
turns out to be a law man.
it's really interesting
you just gave it away,
I guess I can't go see it ,
that's okay,
I didn't give away the whole thing,
I just gave away just enough to get you interested .
That does sound good,
is it one,
I guess it's a rental.
it is.
I may have to do that. Go see it,
go rent it.
a lot of times, what I wind up doing is, picking say an actor or an actress,
and seeing all,
I've seen all of James Dean's movies.
all of Mae West's movies.
just go out and, rent all the movies and, just kind of go,
I guess you could do that, get all of David Carradine's movies,
or, Segal,
what's his first name.
I can't remember his first name.
it's not David is it?
Is it David Segal.
I don't know,
he was Arsenio, just recently.
watch that .
It was really kind of interesting because,
Arsenio was asking him about, what he thought of, one of the other action guys.
God, I can't even remember the name.
He said he wouldn't really talk about it.
Didn't want to talk about him because he didn't think he was such good action guy.
It wasn't Stallone,
it was,
I can't remember.
Shoot, I can't remember the guys name.
I like all RAMBO movies.
one side of the action I guess that I didn't really care for
I don't really like Sylvester Stallone.
I don't think he's really a very good actor.
I know that sounds awful because so many people think he's so wonderful
I just have never been a Stallone fan.
Yo, Adrian .
Hey that's pretty good.
I guess like I say,
never seen any interest in him,
actually rent, probably a combination of movies with the exception of horror films.
Don't watch really very many horror films at all.
I don't either .
I don't know,
there's something about people coming up through the sofa to get you, or something,
you're right.
coming out of the T V that just doesn't make my day,
it's so,
I guess, when I watch movies like that, it's like this can not happen.
I just don't enjoy it, because it's just like, come on, give me a break.
I just
so many of them are done so poorly,
just doesn't even give you the effect,
some of them are done good
they do scare you.
so many of them are just done real,
I don't know,
I'm not really into those.
I just saw, a really interesting movie called, FLATLINERS.
that was one of my favorites,
I thought that was a very good movie.
I was really impressed with that one.
that it was a new subject.
Nobody had ever touched it before.
so well,
it was just,
It was just crazy enough for th ,
students might try to do it.
it's not like there's a lot of scientific data on it.
that's probably true .
it was a very good movie.
It was done real well too.
there wasn't any part of it that you really felt like, no, this can't happen.
it was really good.
was one,
it's not my all time favorite movie
it was good,
it was really good.
I don't know if you like this kind,
I thought PRETTY WOMAN was a really good movie, too.
that was a great movie.
seen that two or three times.
We waited
we rented it,
it was really good.
have you seen SHRIMP ON THE (( BARBY )) ?
I haven't,
I don't know if I've even heard of that one.
it's got,
It must have, what's his name in it.
it doesn't,
Paul Hogan.
I'm surprised.
it's got, Cheech (( Marin )) .
really, that must be pretty good then,
was it good.
it is,
it's a poor man's PRETTY WOMAN in reverse.
Oh .
it was kind of cute.
did you see DIRTY ROTTEN SCOUNDRELS?
I though that was a really cute movie,
I enjoyed that.
it was.
TWINS was good too,
when I thought of that, I thought of,
there was another one,
what's the one that just,
DANCES WITH WOLVES, have you seen that yet?
I haven't.
you've got to see that one,
it's really,
I hear that's the one that you really need to see at the theater instead of home video .
that's probably true,
that's probably true.
very, very good. Very good.
That's another one that,
I was really glad when it won all those awards because it really deserved it.
my wife, has got picture from Kevin Costner
he signed it.
It's from DANCES WITH WOLVES.
he signed it.
happens to be, a friend of one of business associates.
wow, that's impressive.
a friend,
anyhow a nice, picture
it came in an envelope that says DANCES WITH WOLVES
we've got to, try to get out there and see that one.
it's really worth it.
it's a very good movie
I would suggest seeing it at the theater.
I know that they're still playing it
they pushed it back, to playing it in the theaters until August,
I, think because scheduling a video release of it in July
when it won all those awards, they pushed it back to August,
that one is definitely worth seeing,
it's really good.
did you see, DRIVING MISS DAISY?
I didn't think that one was near as good.
I guess it was okay,
it was all right,
when I compare the winners of this year and last year, it just,
I don't know.
Maybe, not,
I'm, pretty pro gun control over all.
had a lot of arguments with people about the issue of gun control
I must say that there are a couple of arguments against, strong gun control which I find very compelling, although most the people who argue gun control with me I find, use sort of canned arguments, sort of the N R A slogan arguments
I've been very frustrated when I do debate with people about it.
I guess on of one of ten I'm probably around a two in terms of fair restricting guns
I have to admit most of that is, strong personal distaste.
I don't like the idea of people being able to kill me with very little effort.
guns are very symbolic of them having that power over me.
me being from Texas ,
I hope you're ready for this.
I'll give it a try.
I've got my Texan stereotypes in place.
I'm not your stereotypical Texan.
I was raised around guns, hunting.
I don't have a fear of fire arms in any respect.
them and what their capabilities are.
on top of that spending a good portion of my earlier years in the military, as a Green Beret, I definitely respect the power of weaponry.
It's pretty power isn't it ?
here in Houston, as well as just about any big city anywhere across this country,
here you go,
here you,
this will be border line N R A which I am not a member of.
When heard slogan, if you outlaw guns then only out laws will have guns.
That applies to anything as well as guns.
(( )) a gun.
any of the big cities you've got the different rival gangs
they're having their little turf wars over their little drug kingdoms and such,
they get out their little Mac tens,
they get out there little uzis
they're going to fight with them.
it doesn't matter what restrictions you put on that type of weapon or a class three firearm.
If they want it they'll get it.
I don't care they've got to go down into New Mexico to get it
they'll get it
they'll get across the border.
my position, although, I have absolutely no use for a fully automatic weapon,
Since I am a law abiding citizen and I have never had a felony, if I wanted to buy one, I don't think there should be that big of a restriction on it.
If they want to run a background check on me, fine.
If they want to put a seven day waiting period, fine, again.
If they me to present a letter from my county sheriff saying that I've got his permission to have an automatic weapon in his county, that's fine too.
What I don't gets dangerous in terms of civil liberties because pretty soon wouldn't,
you don't want to have someone making a personal trust in that way, I would hope. because someone
the personal sheriff get to have a gun
someone the personal sheriff,
(( )) ,
the sheriff would have to follow this guy a convicted felon?
is he a habitual trouble maker?
Are we picking him up every Saturday,
for a drunk and disorderly
if he had an automatic weapon could he really be raising some problems.
just proving that you're a basically a good citizen.
basically good citizen,
you just told me that you're going to get one of those guns anyway.
they want the firepower they can get it.
why hav ,
because it doesn't matter how restrictive you're border control points are
they'll get it across the border one way or the other.
why have any restrictions at all?
Let ,
go back to that one to ten scale where one,
full gun control,
ten being none.
I'd said about an eight.
we be,
I said the restrictions I would like to see anybody, whether it being for handgun, a rifle, a shotgun,
I would like to see them go through either,
I'd like to see a law enforcement agency, not N R A,
whether it be state police or your county police for you to be able purchase a handgun.
You got to go through there course and get certified that you know how to properly handle the weapon, how to safely handle the weapon, how to properly maintain it, the three basics.
that makes a lot of since to me.
I certainly feel that we may disagree on when someone should own a fire arm
I certainly agree that if someone owns a fire arm that have as much responsibility to know how do, use it safely as someone learns how to drive, if not more so.
the han ,
in the hands of the wrong person the car can be just as deadly as the weapon,
Yeah .
I have a bicycle
that scares me too to tell you the truth because I've been run off the road and all sorts of things.
puzzled though, what is the argument,
how does the argument work the bad guys are going to have guns anyway.
What's the point of putting a restrictio ,
basically, the restrictions are just to penalize the good guys because the bad guys are going to get the guns anyway
they're not going to take those courses.
a way of raising the prices of illegal guns?
If it's not going to cut the supply of illegal guns it must going to at least raise the prices
does that, mean advantage?
not necessarily a price thing.
What is happening at least in this state
I expect to see it in other states very soon,
legislation been introduced that, if a citizen of the state, being,
myself, has not committed a felony and has completed a certified weapons course, I can carry a weapon on me at all times concealed or uncon , unconcealed.
you're from California, right?
L A area?
Bay area.
San Francisco,
Bay area.
You've been to the city?
all these people come around,
someone attempts to mug me I would ju ,
I would,
as it stands now if he pulls a blade on me we're equally matched because I can meet him blade for blade.
if this legislation comes through,
he pull ,
I'm out with my family
we've gone shopping,
we're fixing to get in the car,
this guy comes up,
he pulls a blade on me.
I can pull a gun on him now.
looking down the barrel of a hand cannon things change real quick.
What if you're looking down the barrel of a hand cannon?
Then it's still equally matched.
having spent time in combat I feel,
I feel it before they'll get the gun on me.
If I'm,
(( )) at the same,
I'm sure given all,
given all your training I'm sure that, you'd,
if I walk into a bad neighborhood I'm sure I'd want to walk through with you because I'm sure you have far above the average instinct for how to use guns and how to use them effectively and everything.
I'm, quite concerned that if you let everyone
yet committed a felony,
if you let them all walk around carrying guns
in this sort of wild west scenario, you're going to get an awful lot of people shooting guns pretty quickly just given human nature.
You're going to start getting a lot of gunfire.
hard for me to imagine that situation of,
take it to a logical extreme,
if everyone walking around carrying a guns you're not going to have an increase in gunfire.
no ,
it's more of a police action in itself,
the fact that everybody is packing a piece is a deterrence for someone saying, I'm going to mug this guy right here
hey, he's carrying just as much firepower as I can.
if they're sca , if you got to go through a certification course to get you can carry it in public,
then this individual also knows this guys pretty good with it.
whether this person is made the moral decision whether he can take another human life or not,
that's another trip,
In defense of myself, defense of my family or defense of my friends I can blow somebody a way in a heart beat.
more so when it comes to wife and son.
I know,
anybody tries to hurt them I won't even blink,
understand that.
you think someone's trying to hurt them and you make a mistake?
is where the question of gun control comes in.
that was the topic.
I consider gun control is being able to hit my target with the first shot.
Say a person, get,
all of a sudden my combat in me goes up
say I've got the vibes, this guys fixing to do something,
I go ahead and pull my piece.
I make sure this persons sees it so that he's got now doubt that I will use it on him
I will use it right then.
If he doesn't back up at that point he deserves what he gets because I have sent the clearest signal you mess with me, you mess with my family, I'm going to dust you.
As it stands now I've got to do that with a blade.
the only reason I feel com , comfortable doing that is because of the training I've had.
someone who possibly be in the role of an independent bystander, I feel more comfortable with people having blades because, you're not going to get bullets flying around killing people instantly
if I'm the one doing the shooting I don't miss.
That's the kind of training I've had.
this is really ironic that get this subject today because just yesterday our dog ran away .
it's just been tearing me up all day .
I bet.
we have just been looking all over for him.
We've been to the pound,
we've been to the humane society,
we've been to the adoption center,
we've just been all over the neighborhood,
we've been calling neighbors .
this is just really strange .
I guess so.
Have you lost him before?
this is the first time.
he's gotten out before,
he's always stayed right here
he's never gone away.
this is just really strange, because,
What kind of a dog is he?
he's part golden Lab and part, , let's see, Alaskan, no, not Alaskan.
I always forget .
Australian shepherd.
boy, he's a big one.
he's pretty big.
That's why it really surprises me, that he hasn't come back, because, like I said, he's never gone away like this before,
I would think, could get hurt by a car or something.
I don't know that he could really get killed that easily because he is so big.
I don't know .
I hope he comes back,
that's too bad.
I do, too .
How long have you had him?
about two years.
he's ,
that's tough.
it's really,
gosh, anyway,
you get very attached to animals, don't you?
funny how we do?
we just really,
they're always there for you
they don't talk back to you .
Yeah .
it's kind of pleasant.
they're companions,
do you have any?
we have a dog, a little white Lhasa.
her name is Angel.
we have a cat, a white cat. just a Tabby, just a,
his name is Dominique.
We call him Neek.
How do they get along together?
Pretty good.
had dog first,
she's kind of a wimp
the cat kind of rules,
she likes him all right.
had another cat about two years ago.
It got
we had to have it put to sleep,
then we got this new cat,
I have two children
they really enjoy the animals.
my mother who's very elderly lives with us,
she's really good friends with the dog.
They're very,
good buddies.
That's what are so neat about animals,
they're really companions,
they're friends,
That's right.
can love them all you want
they love you right back
they don't ,
That's right.
They don't care what you look like,
or what you act like,
They just love you, unconditionally.
I know.
It's wonderful.
It's just so neat.
I don't know ,
this is just so hard.
I know it has to be.
I said, we've had him for two years
he's never,
gotten out,
he's always been right there.
He's never been gone for, at all
he's just always been right there when he gets out.
it's the first time he's ever been gone like this .
that's really too bad,
that's awful,
just knew today, that we looked at the pound, and that we just went all over the place,
I knew we were going to find him,
when we didn't it was, like, no, .
I don't know.
I hope you'll find him.
You most likely will.
we keep,
they told us at the Humane Society and the adoption center, don't give up hope,
have you put any posters up or anything like that?
not yet.
We were talking about that tonight since, he just got out yesterday
we were just talking about that whether
were trying to find some pictures of him recently.
We've got so many when he was a puppy ,
we just don't have a whole lot.
We have him on film, on the video camera .
you can't put that on the ,
you sure can't.
I don't know,
put .
that's good.
hopefully that will help, maybe around the neighborhood.
we know a lot of people that live in this neighborhood,
that helps, too, if they can keep,
They can keep their eyes open,
That will help.
I think that if somebody else picks him up,
I think that, if he gets out he'll come back.
I really do, because he knows exactly where he lives,
he will.
I bet he does.
I know, that it's hard on you.
I know that I'd be worried, too.
I know.
just so ironic that this would happen
I would get kind of a call .
isn't it, though?
I know,
it's very strange
I know sometimes our cat stay out all night,
when he's not right at the door in the morning I really worry that something's happened to him, that got in a fight or, somebody's hit him
if he doesn't come by mid morning, then I really get scared.
he's always come back eventually
that's good.
That's one thing about cats though,
they're so small
they can get hurt a lot easier.
they can get hurt a lot easier,
they can.
that would make you really,
tend to worry about them , if they're not right there
he's a real feisty guy.
He fights with other cats in the neighborhood because he doesn't want them on our property.
Is that right?
cats are really almost more territorial dogs are.
They just really do not want other animals on their property.
, just
any cat that comes near, and even a dog jump at them or anything,
he'll sit
he'll watch,
I think maybe he would if it came real close,
he's very protective of our property.
That's really,
guess I really don't know cats that well because my mother never liked them,
I never had them growing up,
I never really had them around me,
I've never owned one , since I,
they're really a lot different than dogs because independent,
affectionate when he wants to be,
if you want him to be and he doesn't want to be, either scratch you or run away.
when he wants to be, he's really affectionate.
He likes to lay next to you and have you scratch his head and snuggle up to you,
if he's not in the mood, you'd better stay away from him.
dogs seem to be always in the mood.
They're always, right there, and you to pet them and loving.
that's true .
like the way they come up
put their head underneath your hand,
most dogs do that.
they do.
I don't know any that really don't.
they know exactly how to get that attention,
They sure do.
they just, come up,
they put your,
they'll rub head against you, .
do you keep him indoors most of the time other than to go outs ,
he's outside during the day
we get home at night we do bring him in.
You have a fenced yard or,
The backyard, it's really big, too, for him to run in and stuff.
That's why we couldn't understand why he would want to get out ,
because he's had all this room to run in,
how did he get out?
He dug a hole under the fence.
it a couple weeks ago, dug a hole,
filled it back up
put him back in there.
He did it again
we chained him up
we really didn't want to keep him chained up because, we feel like that's just too restricting for him.
put dirt in the hole and then put some chicken wire around it, so that he couldn't get out.
he kind of ripped through the chicken wire .
I can't,
I just have not,
I don't understand, because it's, like, he's got a good home,
he's got,
we have two kids, that just love him a lot,
it's like we can't understand why he kept wanting to get out,
we just couldn't,
you know, that, animals are like that.
They like to roam and investigate.
Yeah .
I guess that's,
And see what's going on.
I guess that's probably true.
I don't think it's anything we did .
Least I hope not .
I'm sure that,
does have a good home.
I think that's what really bothers me the most about it .
it's like,
How are your kids handling it?
I don't know if it's quite
I have two girls,
just been real,
I don't know,
at first, they seemed to be upset,
now it's like, if he doesn't come home, can we get another dog .
that sounds like kids.
. It's like, , wait a minute , .
poor Buddy,
I said, he's only been gone a day
you already want to replace him .
What's his name,
did you call?
was our cat's name that died.
Is that right ?
Buddy after, Buddy Bell, the Ranger baseball player that used to be here.
Oh .
we used to,
we were really into that when we got him going to the Ranger games,
we named him Buddy Beaner for some reason.
Buddy after Buddy Bell,
That's funny.
a good cat, too.
We miss him a lot,
feel real guilty because we had him, for six years
one year I forgot to get him his leukemia booster
he got it.
I just felt so bad,
real contagious
the vet said it runs rampant in this area ,
I didn't know that.
if they don't have their booster, any kind of saliva or anything from another cat, if they get in a fight it automatically,
they get it if the other cat has it
no idea.
I did not know that.
It was,
I just felt terrible.
I knew something was wrong with him because his appetite was,
he was just getting real skinny.
the question was about, physical fitness and staying in shape and exercise.
don't do it as much as I should.
I try to walk.
last year it every day,
gone down hill.
I'm not doing it as much as I need to,
can tell you when I it on a regular basis I feel so much better
I agree .
and so much healthier.
it's just to get motivated to do it,
once I get started, I ca , I do it every night.
It's just to get, again,
what happened about couple of weeks ago I started again.
I was walking,
it got kind of dark.
I was by myself,
there was this fellow in this truck that kept circling the block.
kind of got frightened,
I kind of use that as an excuse.
All I have to do,
is start earlier,
I haven't walked since,
It's always easy to find an excuse not to exercise.
I know what you mean.
it sure is.
It sure is.
How about you?
Do you exercise on a regular basis?
I try to.
I started at the beginning of this year,
I decided all right, I'm going to start exercising again,
I'm going to be real good,
I went through the T I fitness center and registered for the, aerobics classes there.
they run for two months at a time.
pay to take them.
up for one that was three nights a week, an hour and a half,
that was four and a half hours a week.
it cost sixty dollars,
I thought, okay, that's not cheap,
that'll encourage me to always go since I spent that much money.
I had a friend of mine going,
I was real good,
I only missed it about three times.
March came around,
I signed up again,
I got, caught up with a class I was taking at T I,
I was having to work some real late hours to get caught with my work after I got out of class.
I went to Colorado Springs the next week to do some training at the T I up there.
that was two weeks I had missed,
boy, I tell you what, I've been terrible ever since then.
it's once you get out of that habit
get back into it.
I teach school,
last year a bunch of teachers had an aerobics class.
We went in together and hired a private instructor,
she came to our school twice a week.
I would go faithfully,
I missed once.
Then I went back again a couple times and missed another time, and then kept missing and never went back again.
I think, if you,
you just have to stick with it.
I think I've been two maybe three times the month of April,
this session is about to run out.
I signed up for a different one now that's only two nights a week because I am getting kind of into a real busy schedule as far as teaching a lot of training classes
some of them require me to go out of town,
that just kind of throws my whole schedule off on doing that.
lately, there's been nights that I could have gone
I've found excuses,
things like I had the flu last week,
I'm fine this week.
I could have gone Monday.
I could have gone tonight,
I didn't.
I'm kind of finding excuses,
now it's kind of like,
this is the last week.
I'll just start fresh next week.
I do it.
I think another thing is that my friend that was taking with me the first two months wasn't the second two months.
She started taking tennis lessons,
I haven't had that extra motivation, us forcing each other, not forcing each other
but encouraging each other to go.
that makes a difference when you have somebody to go with and to do the same the same thing.
it's misery loves company.
I don't really love exercise.
some I,
the neighbor across the street, she to President's,
it's not President's any more.
I don't know what the name of it is anymore.
she loves it.
automatic high for her.
She just enjoys it so much.
I don't.
I'm the same way.
I feel good after I do it,
I hate it when I'm doing it.
I just,
I don't enjoy it at all,
she just loves it.
Even when she doesn't go to the health club, she runs,
it's a daily thing for her.
it's so hard for me.
I envy her,
I wish I could be that way,
I don't.
I do too.
I don't,
I have an older sister that loves running, too,
she runs all the time,
me, it's every minute's agony,
in fact, I don't run.
I hate to run.
when I walk I'll take along a radio or something
that helps, pass the time.
walking is kind of boring.
I do have a few friends that live in my apartment complex in this neighborhood,
get together,
I think now that the weather's getting nicer we're going to start doing it again and occasionally go walking.
There's a real nice residential area right behind our apartment complex.
it's not as boring if you get several people
That's right.
you can kind of talk,
makes it pass pretty quickly,
the aerobics isn't too boring.
I kind of enjoy it when I'm doing it.
it's a lot more fun than some other things I could do, I guess.
have to make myself go,
of course while I'm doing it I feel pretty good,
after I get finished I feel great.
it's great afterwards,
I can go in there,
I can be,
a Friday afternoon when I'm tired, it's the end of the week and I just want to go home. I'll make myself go,
I'll have headache and everything,
I get out,
I don't have a headache any more.
I feel great,
I'm just,
it's amazing how much better I feel.
just in general, I sleep a lot better
that's right.
I just feel much better.
I've been kind of dragging the last few weeks,
I know if I would just get around to exercising
I'd feel better.
it does,
it gives you energy.
my dragginess is my excuse for not exercising.
I'm too tired,
I have a headache
I just got over the flu,
I'm still kind of draggy
I better not go .
It's kind of a vicious circle isn't it?
it really is.
I find, too, that I have more energy when I exercise,
it's silly not to,
I don't know,
it's just a put off.
I don't know why I don't do more,
know that it's good for my health.
I know, from everything that you read and you see on television now, exercise is so important to good health.
doing something to keep yourself fit, but you're probably prolonging your life.
There's no reason that we shouldn't do it,
I don't know.
It's just hard to make yourself go.
think one thing I don't like about aerobics is that after I'm finished it's kind of late at night,
I've been sweaty,
I don't really feel like going in the grocery store all sweaty or running errands.
it kind of kills the evening for doing errands.
I think a Tuesday Thursday might be a little bit better.
Of course, I feel like once I've done it, if I'm sweaty I might as well do an extra thirty minutes , because you've already kind of shot your night.
I'm kind of glad they have a longer class on now that I can just kill two nights, and
and, get a reasonable amount of workout in.
Does it cost the same for just two nights or,
it's less expensive.
that's good, too.
This one was only forty five dollars.
I'm glad it's not too totally cheap, because if it was too cheap I would talk myself out of going more, probably.
Since it's more expensive, I think, Okay, you spent that much money, you'd better go .
That's right,
that's right.
do you have a facility right you work?
it's right there,
have a really nice facility at the T I.
They've got two different aerobics rooms,
they have the mirrors.
Of course, sometimes you don't like to see the mirrors on the wall
you don't like to see how you work.
I guess, sometimes it kind of motivates you to really get going.
they hire private instructors?
that's great.
they have ceiling fans in the rooms,
a pretty nice setup.
of course it's real convenient, because it is right there at work.
I think if I had to come home and then go somewhere, I'd never make it.
just the fact that I can go straight from my desk over to recreation center and do it helps a lot.
I can see that would be, easy.
They make it as easy as they possibly can for you.
yeah .
do a lot of people take advantage of it?
Quite a few do.
They have probably, I'd say aerobics classes each session that are running,
they have them anywhere from six in the morning.
they have some lunch hour that are shorter,
I guess guys can take advantage of that.
For me, I wouldn't have time to do an of aerobics and then take a shower and dressed again.
there's a lot more guys that do that one.
they have them, in the evenings,
they even have some late night ones for people that work second shift and things like that.
they have big variety.
They even have some, when the weather gets nice out in the pool.
I've never done that one before.
you have a pool there, too?
how nice.
They've got an olympic pool, basketball courts and sand volleyball.
They've got the full weight room and, the locker rooms with, a jacuzzi and sauna and the shower facilities, and hair dryers, and you'd need just about.
nice facility.
It's also got a full basketball court,
I think they're working on building a jogging track and some other things.
very nice.
That's great.
I just don't take as much advantage of it as I should.
Now to use,
I'm just now finally starting to do the aerobics thing.
does it cost money weight room or tak , to go swimming.
Do you have to pay for that, too.
You can get a fitness membership that allows you to use the facilities,
it's about eight dollars a month.
that's not bad.
not at all .
Pretty cheap.
the aerobics cost extra even if you have the fitness membership,
I think the aerobics classes are even pretty reasonably priced, from what I've heard.
I think so too,
people of all ages take advantage of the aerobics?
People of all ages take advantage of the aerobics?
in fact, the T I er's families can come in on these things,
I'll let you go first.
what's there to say?
Doesn't seem like it's being carried out very well in my opinion.
Seems like it takes so long between conviction and carrying out the penalty that I don't see that it makes any difference to sentence anybody.
it seems like they could die of old age waiting to get the death penalty.
I know what you mean.
in Maryland do have capital punishment,
I've seen, a lot of people get
just nothing happens,
just endless, endless, endless appeals.
from what I underst ,
I saw a statistic just a few days ago, so far this or was it during the last year, a years time, I think it was they executed twenty five people in the nation.
Meanwhile, there were twenty five hundred people on death row.
it's building up,
convicting them faster than they're executing them
it's really building up.
what's amazing is some of them have been on death row for a number of years.
here in Maryland I know we have a real problem with overcrowding in prisons,
everybody's got that.
here it's, to the point where they were letting prisoners go.
commuting the sentences of those that were jail for lesser crimes,
in order to put more people the jails.
it was just, amazing to me,
of course they made a big deal out of few that got out and turned around and committed a crime within five days of getting out,
and being rearrested an.
Maryland where the famous Willy Horton case was.
I can't remember.
Refresh my memory.
the one that was used so much in the campaign. race.
it may not have been Maryland.
It may have been Massachusetts,
I don't remember.
I don't remember myself.
Anyway, the question is, do you think, does make a difference in whether or not a criminal commits a crime
do you think it can if it's done right?
started executing them on a regular basis, I think it might make a difference.
Right now,
If it,
I don't see it making a difference.
I don't see someone not going out there and committing murder because they're afraid they're going to get sentenced to death.
huh .
most people out there committing murders (( )) don't care.
They just don't care.
I think in large measure the reason they don't care,
it's not because the punishment,
so many of the people that commit crimes don't get punished.
The police don't catch them,
the courts don't convict them,
they don't serve very much of the time
success rate is very high.
Crime does pay,
make a good living at it.
a lot of people here in Baltimore that, have
we just had, a real big cocaine bust,
of course, playing it up real big that it looked like it was a very, very small ring
they just happened to get lucky and catch the guy.
Baltimore has, an all time record for the number of deaths so far this year.
I think they've got over a hundred dead already this year.
Last year it was D C,
I guess Baltimore caught them.
moved up
you have to remember that it, there's, I think, X number of people out there that are going to commit murders,
huh .
once you kill off a few of them ,
if you murder a guy because he murdered your partner or something like that, pretty soon you run out of people to murder.
the only consolation is so many of the murders are,
the, the violent people going against each other
society's not going to put them to death,
at least maybe the guy they cross next time is going to.
capital punishment is an appropriate punishment for the kind of people where we say, this sort of person is just not acceptable to our society
we are there by going to remove them from society, not temporarily, but permanently.
personally think life imprisonment,
I don't think much imprisonment. First of all, it's never, turns out to be life,
second, why should we,
the idea of life imprisonment with no chance of parole.
that means you're going to put them in a cage you think it's never ever going to be safe for them to walk the streets again,
then, why bother.
Just execute them, because way you're sure they'll never ever going to walk the streets again.
anybody that says life in prison with no chance of parole, I'd say, give them the death penalty .
it makes sense,
you have the occasional person who may have been falsely accused, but so few and far between,
makes good T V movies
that's about it.
also, thing I don't like about a lot of these court trials and a lot of these appeals is that it's not based on what is true and what is false
rather it's on the rules of evidence, what can I hide and what do I have to tell.
I think our courts should be geared much more strongly towards finding out the truth than they currently are.
that way we can be sure,
we can find out the truth,
we can find out what really happened base the on what the person did, not on what we're allowed to let the jury hear .
I had,
father in law participated in jury trial,
actually on the jury,
huh .
this man was accused of killing, I think it was two people, and shooting a, policeman, point blank in the face.
Of course he didn't die.
this was during a holdup of restaurant
it came out during the trial that, they had tried to rob another place
when the guy came out with the bag they thought was money, it turned out to be a couple
they were so upset from robbing this guy, trying to do this holdup that didn't work that they quite literally were mad and went into a restaurant to hold the place up and just started, shooting people.
Just started shooting people,
You know it's,
because they botched the first job
C and,
so now they're going to get even.
get even with who,
stupid guys .
it turned out that the, policeman survived to the point that he was able to, identify the guy.
of course, they tried to make the cop look like he was, a, no good rotten drunk.
it was amazing.
what was the verdict,
what was the results there.
he was found guilty,
last I heard, beat a push for the death penalty.
whether they finally got it or not, I don't know.
I kind of, stopped listening after a while.
he would come home
after the trial was over he came home and told us what was going on
of course then they had to go back to dec ,
after he had to go,
penalty phase,
they've, decide the penalty separately from the verdict.
was pretty much, let's burn him.
the way they wanted to do it.
he was surprised because he thought there was going to be a problem because he,
some people on the case a little hesitant on convicting him on some of the charges
when it all came down, they just, within an hour decided the man's fate.
you just have to decide, wha , yo ,
there's really two separate decisions there I guess,
one is, did it really happen the way prosecutor said it happened,
is this man really guilty,
you have to decide that,
then you have to decide, as a member of society what do I want to do with this guy who did this thing.
that w ,
never been on a jury,
I've never had that experience,
I'm not sure I'd look forward to making that kind of decision about a man's life.
it went quick from what he said.
huh .
there's a lot of other crimes out there, besides murder,
I think, if you're dealing drugs
caught more than twice or something,
there's, a death penalty associated with it.
the thing I'd be most likely to attach the death penalty to is the violence.
ye ,
I can handle selling drugs,
not worth somebody getting executed for.
we hear so much about the violence and how it's not safe to walk the streets because these random drive by shootings and that sort of thing.
the people I'd most likely want to sentence to death are the people that just show a really low regard for human life.
you, never know when they're going to turn or hurt the next person because it doesn't really matter to them whether someone else gets hurt or not.
I agree.
I go, le ,
these are the kind of people I would like to get out of here and get out of circulation and say accept your kind in our society.
I agree,
I have, a low tolerance for person.
as far as,
there are other crimes that I think,
kidnapping, when they,
kidnapping per se has a certain, fine and penalty associated with it,
some of these people are just out and out brutal.
some of the cases I've heard about over the years,
I pay a good deal of taxes I guess, because make a fair amount of money,
the taxes that I pay, I guess general statement, I feel guess I get my money's worth for.
I'm not sure, though, whether I feel,
I guess I am sure that I feel that, in general, though, the allocation, of the taxes in certain areas, correct.
I'm sure that, probably every person in this country would agree with you on that.
Because everybody has a different idea of where the money should go.
lately, I guess, or, at least for the last twenty years or so, I've felt that the expenditures of our taxes into high cost, defense items, at least in the last ten years, have been,
there's been and extraordinary amount of money spent there,
I'm not really sure we've gotten our money's worth there, regardless of the outcome of the Desert Storm,
Desert Shield, situations.
I guess my particular beef is that having participated in the off and on years of being called back and things of that nature, is, I've found that, there's an extraordinary amount of waste.
I take that given in any military operation
no argument here.
I gue ,
should imagine that problem,
why I'm a little concerned about today is that this, easy, rather quick victory the, Mideast, over the, Iraqis, might lead us into, a false sense of security that we can do that against any other foe.
I don't know what other foe that would be,
just getting nervous again, now hearing the voices come up that there has to be increased expenditures in that area.
of course, and things were expended in the course of fighting the war,
inventory's going to have to be restocked,
I work for T I,
one of the things we were told is, they had eleven thousand HARM missiles which T I is the sole supplier for,
they used up two thousand of them the war,
they're going to have to do another contract to restock that, to get ready in case something else is needed.
would that be,
let's see,
two thousand out of eleven thousand, that's about a little over twenty per cent.
should imagine that, that would be to keep it at I guess, were originally appropriated when the Soviet threat, I guess, was perceived as being a greater one.
I don't think there's very much of a threat there today.
I do worry about what nuclear weapons are left over there, and who's controlling them,
that's true.
don't know our hardware would stop some fanatic, I guess, from doing anything, that would be irrational.
of course now, we used up twenty of that inventory,
in a matter of just a few weeks,
T I also makes the missile, which was T V laser guided bombs
a big percentage of that was expended, as well,
that was just a matter of,
what is the name of that?
it's called Paveway.
a big percentage of that was used up during that conflict also.
are two areas in which T I stands gain short term business to restock that.
what I'm,
I guess it,
concerned about,
talking about the taxes in general, and was an area that perceive as not being the best expenditure for the amount of dollar that we're taxed for, in the area of defense,
perhaps we have paid too much there,
I don't know,
it just seems to me that over the years, now, the,
a cliche,
I see it myself,
I see where the infrastructure is sort of breaking down, the roads, the highways.
no doubt.
I don't know,
upbeat school areas,
I don't totally agree great, with the, with the great of effort and time there,
I guess overall, because I guess I'm not associated with what ghetto schools, and, rural school systems are like, should imagine that would take an enormous expenditure.
as a matter of fact, in Texas, we've had our school funding system declared unconstitutional by state judge,
the legislature just passed what they called a Robin Hood Bill, which,
basically, what it does, is it takes extra money from the more affluent school districts, from local taxes
and send them to other parts of the state, that are not so affluent.
don't have a broad based income tax that funds the educational system,
is it all funded out of local taxes?
you some perspective, town that I had lived in for sometime in nineteen eighty three was funded sixty five per cent by state funds.
Then we had a number of education reforms, that the legislature said, hey, we got to do this, we got to do this, we got to do this,
they forgot to put in the state budget the money to pay for it,
they dumped it all on the local school districts.
Sounds like the way the federal and state system works now.
what ended up happening shift.
We went to sixty five per cent state funding to sixty five per cent local funding in a matter of four years.
do you mean complete reversal?
It's all shifted to local districts,
now, even the money that's been raised for the local districts to be siphoned off and sent to other parts of the state.
Because, I guess, they can't raise that money in poorer districts,
That's right,
no problem, with, a certain, that's a standard
that everybody, ought to be able to have,
I am opposed to, any attempts to restrict, local communities from taxing themselves above that to provide above the minimum.
I see what you're saying.
I do, I, I guess I am and staunch supporter of some subsidy for any forms of education.
by that I mean, I'm a product myself,
I have, a, a background of, my college education through the G I Bill.
So did I.
My Masters, anyway.
when I look at it to me, it doesn't really make any difference.
It was a marvelous opportunity that I couldn't have done,
I don't think I would have gone on, unless I had that financial
easement made possible.
That's right.
don't really care what it takes to qualify, ex , whether you're a veteran or whether you,
I don't even know if you have to perform community service,
unless, you promise to even do something in the future, I think that, the subsidy itself,
I guess the enactment of that form of legislation,
would give many people who, think, I think I perceive the fact,
at least what I read, is that some younger people feel that education is priced budget.
I know in the state of Florida just today, legislature, adjourned,
they had completed a fifteen per cent increase state land grant colleges, isn't,
to me it doesn't sound like a lot of money,
I guess it would be for fifteen hundred dollars a year.
They went from eleven to fifteen hundred,
for an out of state student the tuition went up twenty five per cent.
I don't know what that would be.
raise, community college taxes here, a few years ago.
goes along with the general idea that the federal government was expending so much money on defense, the
fees fund these things, I guess that's trickled down to the states
the states don't have enough money
must charge fees.
not too sure of that reasoning.
I guess to get back to the main topic, I don't know whether I pay too much taxes.
I travel extensively in Europe and see enormous,
people a great deal in taxes,
they tell me when I sit and talk to people
there they tell me
some states they pay,
in Germany or England in some cases people in my income level, at least, allege that they pay up to percent of their gross income in taxes.
I can believe that.
I'm not too sure when I put my property tax in, my car tax, my income tax, and these myriad of,
now it costs me money to leave the country, some sort of a tax to leave the country,
some sort of an airport departure tax, which is getting to, quite high levels,
I'm not sure that I'm not up fairly close to that.
I guarantee be paying a lot more in taxes the Democrats had more say.
You really think so?
I really do.
what's happened here is
I feel in the last ten years, my taxes have gone up,
they haven't gone down.
I pay
quite a bit more taxes
that's been a Republican government for the last ten years.
what they've been able to do is slow down the rate of increase .
from becoming even more obnoxious.
this has been really interesting,
I've enjoyed our talk.
I guess I just push something here.
Push one again, right?
good bye
that's it.
Just hang up.
Don, good talking with you.
Nice talking with you, too.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
I think life,
I grew up on a farm,
I don't,
what kind
did you (( grow up )) in the farm.
I grew up in,
at that time I was in a, (( Trenton )) , New Jersey
it was a suburb of (( Trenton )) ,
I really had mixture of suburb,
and urban living.
bit different.
I think though it was much slower and, much more self contained.
I think you're right.
It's interesting
work in a high school.
I'm comparing my life when I was in high school thirty years ago to what I see these children doing.
the pressures on the children,
you hear this as an excuse,
it's true they are so much greater.
by comparison.
I cannot believe, what they're doing, academically the demands on them
I can see why children do drop out.
I think that's right.
can remember as a child, nobody ever worried about me wondering out at night and going where I wanted to go.
occur to nobody to worry that anything would happen to me
they were,
didn't, you didn't have to lock your door.
a lo ,
some of these are urban worries
a lot different all though I guess twenty years a go now, in this area, things were, similar because twenty years ago
let's see,
it was after,
It's not all that long ago is it .
years ago is when we had the Washington riots,
the first rights we've been having some problem now
it reminded me of that.
we were living in New Jersey.
twenty years ago.
In (( Allendale )) .
I use to have to go over to Patterson when those riots were going on,
I don't know though
kind of hard to really know because of
though the news media had those riots, kind of blown up out of proportion.
I went there many times
the Washington riots weren't,
saw a riot.
The Washington riots weren't
I lived right downtown,
Did you?
what you saw what you got .
I'm telling you.
That's what,
they're so many mor ,
they're different kind of dangers that face young people now and social pressures,
the pressures of drug is so much,
the prevalence is so much greater,
kinds of diseases that you've got out the,
the consequences is
so much of what's going on,
I think that's true,
I think that's true.
is so much more serious then when we were younger.
I think the other thing is that, we have taken some rather drastic turns education and the way we approach things as of maybe starting back I'm number one, and, worrying about self and not, seeing the consequences of the disintegration of the family.
there have been many things that have happened that have not encouraged closeness of families and, support for young people the kind of support that they need,
to help them take care of the things,
if you don't have some kind basic believe or something down inside of you,
then it's very difficult to, have anything to turn to,
That's true.
something facing you like that.
I also being involved in the school system see so many of the problem children coming from their parents, children who will lie and cheat
you approach their parents,
their parents are constantly justify them rather then to,
they're constantly,
(( )) .
excusing their,
you can see exactly,
why the child is that way.
You hold a child accountable,
if you're not going to get reinforced by,
That's right.
that at home.
that's right.
you can't make up in a classroom of one hour a day,
what's not been done for,
That's right.
fifteen or sixteen years at home,
get mixed signals
not always the school's systems
I think a lot of,
it is the families,
there's so much more, then that
it starts,
the way you were mentioning,
very much deeper then that
I think that too.
I see some flickers of good directions turning,
(( No )) .
whether they're soon enough and fast enough I don't know,
it's just,
Of course, life is a lot more complicated too in ways,
the kinds of jobs that people need to be trained,
for now.
with farming being so mechanized,
people working on the family farm which was a traditional American way that becomes less and less likely,
factory jobs are so much more, sophisticated.
that's right.
the kinds of knowledge that,
requiring an increasingly sophisticated labor force
some people just don't have it.
there's so many people on the lower end of those are going to be drop outs and the,
you worry when,
and the poor and the homeless and whatnot,
sex and drugs on the young children and the unborn children,
that's just another,
in terms of what it's going to mean to a society,
in the future it's a
some ways it's rather frightening,
It really is
almost overwhelming sometimes when you think,
It certainly is.
the jobs that is out there to be done,
it sure is.
in order to flip things back around the way they needed to be,
It sure is.
not that I really think that they were perfect ten, twenty, or thirty years ago,
It was a little easier though wasn't it?
just the volume makes a big difference,
mother I use to think sometimes the kids,
it's just the volume of it,
to try to keep all wash done and all the things done everything.
And all the things demanded of the mother too
I look at my mother's life
didn't work,
for a long time I was very young she didn't drive.
she learned to drive I think when I was, a teenager,
her life was a lot simpler,
I sit here,
children's lives were simpler because mother was there,
somebody was there.
That's right.
when there's nobody there,
That's right,
that's right.
I always thought too that, people worrying about going to work are little
think that's sad if they have to because they miss so much,
believed after having a few teenagers that the worst time you could go,
They need (( you more as a teenager )) .
to go work was when they were teenagers.
Isn't that true.
That's why I'm working in a school system so that I'm home when they're home.
it's not so much that they come to you every minute,
it's that you are there when they need you.
That's exac ,
isn't that,
that's so true,
I find working in a high school is very helpful because it let's me be a little more tolerant and understanding of what people do,
it keeps me from being the old (( fogy ))
at the same time,
it also it prevents kids from try to go pull the wool over your eyes,
I think that's true.
as to what's com ,
(( that's )) the same
I'm home in the summers,
I'm home with the holidays,
I'm home at three o clock when the children are at home
where home,
one is now a senior in high school and the other's in college,
that helps a lot,
it does,
I have a daughter who just had a second job,
she needed to work
he opted to go into a day care center where she could have her children with her.
looked a long time before she found one that was laid back enough so would be able to interact with them,
That's right.
(( )) , good kind of experience as well
I think that's really important
I don't think people realize how important it is.
that is so true,
it's not say something
every once in awhile they'll come up and make a comment,
you realize it's important that,
yet, we have to make that choice
I think twenty, thirty years ago a lot of women,
just didn't have to make that choice.
I think that's right.
your name again?
Linda Lee.
your name was?
I think probably that we've just about .
I enjoyed,
I'm going to,
talking with you.
change the world
I enjoyed talking with you.
it's nice talking to you, too.
Bye now.
Bye bye.
There we are.
Yes .
Tell me, what are some of the things that you did with your children when they were growing up?
when they were little, we did lots of reading and playing and going to parks,
. *
and things of that sort,
I had two boys.
They were both interested in things like model rockets,
we would go to the football field and set off model rockets .
I have two boys also .
my children swimmers,
as they were growing up much of, our, normal life outside of school and everything their swimming.
in order to have a reason for being there, especially as they got older, I became involved in it too
we were always together at their meets.
that's good.
mine were not terribly sporting.
they both did T ball and soccer in grade school,
neither one of them carried on, the sports after that.
boys tried those,
go in,
they started swimming when they were, seven and eight,
they really loved it,
they're swimming both c ,
they'll be,
one is in college, also swims in college,
the other will continue to swim in college,
they're fortunate,
they nationals.
that's great!
we would drive up to see that whenever it was reasonably close,
we did a lot of things,
we tried to do things both together and individually with the children,
we live near Washington,
would always go in for the museums.
That's always a big, thing.
one of my children is, also a musician
one of the things that we did with him a lot was to go, either my husband or I, or both of us would, t , concerts with him.
my other child, is tropical fish,
our whole family, we take family trips to different places to visit
My goodness,
we didn't have any, avid, activities like that,
were interested in a lot of things,
nothing to quite that depth, I guess.
we would,
(( )) I don't think missed a fish store on the entire coast of the United States .
my goodness.
we did go to things like aquariums and,
natural history museums and zoos, and all of those things that one does with kids,
In fact, it's funny,
our vacations have always been, they've gotten older.
When they were younger we would go to the beach,
as they got older we tried to pattern our vacations where we would travel and do things,
and that there would be feature each day.
Whether it would be going to,
one summer went up to New England
we went to the marble quarries up there,
(( really )) .
to see that, and another day fish hatchery,
C and,
so try,
of course we learned too.
I don't know,
when they were very young I did not work.
I started working half time when, they were at the nursery school.
I (( ))
started working part time when they were in, junior high school and high school,
I worked in the school system,
now I work a full school day,
that leaves me off on holidays and summers.
I think they need me more,
when they were older, than they did when they were,
I think, need you in different ways.
That's true,
You want to be around for the crisis and things like that,
That's right.
it's not quite so much the hand holding and peanut butter and jelly making .
for sure.
That's for sure,
have any feelings as to the trends that you see?
it lo ,
o ,
the one trend I would say is that with so many more women choosing professional careers,
there are fewer of them home in the afternoons,
I don't think it needs to be the mothers,
I think it would be nice if some of the parents would be around for a few more hours.
when they (( )) ,
it was funny,
I can remember,
my mother and I have talked about it, how important it was when I came home from school.
It wasn't really conversation,
there were always things that just tumbled out.
granted the child doesn't always think that they're sharing it,
not there they miss it.
I think that's true,
that's, at least in my experience, truer of girls than boys.
Even when I was there, my boys didn't share all that much with me, and certainly not to the extent I did with my mother.
I realize that,
it's funny,
they don't always do it,
occasionally they do,
you want,
when they do, there's a reason for it, that they're sharing it,
when bouncing something off of me.
Because it was something that was bothering them or they were concerned about,
it was,
you just felt, gee, if I weren't here,
if my husband,
Who would they ask?
That's right.
what would they do?
that's exactly right.
interesting particularly think because the society in which we live, families are separated.
You don't have grandparents near by or aunts and uncles.
I grew up in a situation where on weekends we were always visiting relatives.
I did too.
We were close to my, maternal grandparents, just a few miles,
and, close enough to visit my paternal grandparents, quite often.
They were fifty miles away
I grew up with,
every weekend there was some visiting somewhere.
it was sort of an Italian family,
my children,
have some relatives in the area that see, we,
they don't ha ,
it's not that constant
thing where you are on intimate terms with cousins.
when my kids were quite small,
we lived close to both sets of grandparents
they saw them a lot,
they don't have any cousins,
they didn't,
cousins are about ten years younger.
they never played together or anything.
just sort of think
there are only two of them
they didn't live in the same town.
the trend families and time,
parents are spending less time, you don't have the families, take up the gap.
That's right.
the kids in some ways are suffering a little bit, in that, that get the family issues that get discussed,
and all these, I think are very important parts of them growing up,
try do it as well as we can.
We keep in close contact with grandparents and talk over the phone,
cousins and aunts and uncles,
we do,
not the same, we are,
that's part of, I think, teaching too, is what a family is like,
then do they pattern their own?
everyone makes it's own model,
seems that there should be some continuity,
it's helpful to have, things that become family traditions, and that sort of thing.
this tradition, that we always go out before Christmas and cut our own tree.
that's always been a little bit of a tradition that we've had.
Now, this year, it's, was hard with our son now being in college.
Yeah .
this was one thing that we, weren't able to do this year,
we did that from the time the children were young enough to realize what it was until, our older son went away to college.
that's the kind of thing that they will remember, though.
we have advent calendars still,
from the time that they came, to,
Ours finally disintegrated.
We had a felt one that was li ,
it was a Christmas tree that had, a little trinket for each day,
that was pinned on the date,
then you took it off and put it on the tree,
at the end you had a decorated tree.
a friend
it finally got moth eaten,
we threw it way last year .
a friend of mine from Denmark hand appliqu3ed one for each child.
How nice.
they look today as new as they did when us,
there's a ring
you buy a present,
I see.
you wrap the present up,
the presents have gone from the days when they were very young to a little box of Band Aids and an eraser and things,
How cute.
where, sometimes I put a little gift occasionally a Christmas tree decoration which they will save for future,
to sometimes, just money,
pieces of candy.
I think as they're getting in college, I just,
for my older boy that was in college I put a dollar bill for each day. Which was the equivalent
I'm sure he appreciated that!
it was the equivalent of a Christmas present.
it was fun,
that's a tradition
be passed on to them when they,
when they get married and leave.
you were saying what other trends are there,
one just occurred to me because I was editing a book about it recently,
that is the trend in a lot of, lower class areas, for the grandmothers to be raising the children.
a lot of it is due to the fact that the mothers are on drugs.
The b ,
and the broken families.
We, as I said, living in an area of Washington, D C.
We definitely see this,
it's that grandmother figure, not only raising her own children, but raising, children from the streets, too, frequently.
we had a sociologist at the center where I work who was writing a book on, multigeneration,
where the tradition in the family has been for a teenaged daughter to have a baby while she's still living at home with the mother
si ,
this is in fact,
we've been studying this in our school, that, this is one of the symptoms, or not the symptoms,
it's one of the ways that young girls feel that they are maturing,
it's a rite of passage .
H ,
Myrna, how do you get your
most of it is from the radio,
and also from the news programs that we watch in the afternoon.
We usually watch the local news and national news both.
I'm pretty much the same.
find that,
I'm a graduate student
read a lot for school
I find I have no patience to really read a newspaper because I'm reading so much all the time.
I really enjoy just sitting down and watching a news broadcast.
you can always get up and leave that .
that's true.
seem to have time to sit down and read the paper.
by the time I get home from work,
it's already, time for the news to come on.
That's right,
it's so much easier to sit there
besides, I can be doing other things and still listen to the news.
that's right,
a lot of times I eat while I'm watching the news.
the same thing.
Is there any,
what did you think about the coverage over in the, Persian Gulf?
I think they did a great job.
I thought so too,
for a while when we were really interested, we saw it all the time.
Some of the stations I guess carried it for twenty four hours for a couple of days there
the special reports and the extended news coverage I thought was really good.
huh .
you could always find some channel that had something on
you didn't necessarily have to watch the same thing all the time.
just news,
that's right,
I noticed that one thing T I did, they do have television monitors stationed throughout our buildings,
they used to have a program called T News, and just updates different things that were going on within T I.
when all mess in the Persian Gulf came about they started carrying C N N.
now, they have had so much good response from this,
that T I now has C N N on all the time.
that's great.
we can always run upstairs and,
a quickie update on what's going on, if we really want to.
if have a break in the middle of the day, you take a coffee break you can always stay informed.
yeah .
that's really good.
when don't have cable television anymore, when I moved, went back to graduate school I just didn't have the money to a cable T V line, or whatever,
I don't get C N N, which was a big disappointment.
I used to watch,
that was my,
if I wasn't home,
I'm a college teacher
sometimes I teach in the evening
I'll miss the evening news.
you could always catch a good news program at eight o'clock or nine o'clock on C N N.
I think that's,
Yes .
that really has changed the way, I look at the news.
we don't get it either,
we live out in the country,
we just don't have it available out there where we are.
when we did have it, what we usually watched,
was C N N
sometimes we'd watch the weather stations.
that's, same,
when I had it, watched it, religiously for half an hour
you could go on, to do what else you wanted to do.
I find read very little,
I don't even get a regular newspaper because, don't drive that much,
I only live about a mile from where I go to school and work,
find I spend so little time that I don't really listen to the radio,
I don't,
television is my main new source.
I get that too, because in a van pool,
I'm in the van, two hours a day
to commute to work?
morning I try to sleep because dark thirty.
the afternoon, I try to read
I not pay attention to what our driver is doing .
I can,
the van pools I know that,
I'm in the Baltimore, Washington area,
I know they do van pool a lot here from some of the outer areas,
if you want a nicer home, beyond the suburbs,
that's necessary.
you in Baltimore itself?
right outside Baltimore.
I am less than a mile from the Baltimore line.
I go to of the University of Maryland that is just, less than a mile from my house.
actually in Baltimore,
you could say I'm in Baltimore.
I have two kids over there.
in Baltimore?
D C area.
one works for the State Department
in the
he's stationed at Bethesda
that's a really nice area, Bethesda area.
there's a big difference between Baltimore and Washington, even though they're so close.
There's only an hour, less than that between the two
there is a big difference in things like property values
the closer you get to Washingt , D C the more expensive it is.
different slant.
Washington, it really is international city, where Baltimore is hometown Baltimore.
most people have relocated to the Washington area,
rather have Baltimore with the home town atmosphere.
like it, I like it a little bit better, too.
It's interesting though, to meet different populations.
just now being, from Pittsburgh originally,
I'm just now meeting different populations like Chinese students and things
I find that really interesting, to imagine,
here is somebody that was in China, two years ago when all that was going on Beijing.
an perspective.
like the hometown area,
I think that also goes,
it's funny,
can watch different news.
I can watch Washington news or Baltimore news
I really do watch Baltimore news.
that really makes,
I don't really bother with the Washington station because it's so far removed from what I'm interested in.
most of what they're talking about in Washington the crime problems that they're having there.
it was just a big thing recently
they've had some terrible problems with Hispanics,
they had to impose a curfew in two of the areas the Washington suburbs.
The mayor,
they've gotten rid of that really bad mayor and then, brought in,
I heard about that.
then came a woman that's
she's big in the Democratic party
that's good,
she has good national ties,
she also was, something like a, auditor or something like that before this position.
She was a state auditor,
I guess she was an auditor general or something like that for the District of Columbia, at Washington.
she left that to get a position with the Democratic party
now she ran for mayor,
she's cleaning house
it looks like hopefully she'll do a nice job, for Washington, which is,
you sort of feel sorry for a lot of the people there.
from what I pick up on the news, it's a difficult process, to get rid of bad mayor.
I know both of my kids didn't want to live anywhere around downtown areas,
they both moved way out.
I think one of them lives in Germantown
I can't remember where the other one lives.
It's a nice area .
It's, means they have to drive a little bit,
they might be car pooling too.
Do they car pool in?
Are they driven by themselves.
now, think he carpools,
he's got fairly regular hours since he came back,
now probably been carpooling together, in fact,
she had been called back up, active duty.
she was supposed to have gotten out of active duty as of last Friday.
I haven't talked to them this weekend,
I don't know what the situation is,
she was,
They didn't call you for Mother's Day?
We were gone .
You weren't home?
d ,
we weren't home
a message on our recorder
I had that from all my kids except for one.
that's good.
I guess we should stop now.
I thank you for calling,
I have enjoyed it.
I really do like this program because I get to talk to people from all over the United States,
so do I,
I've become very aware of different political views because some of the things we have to discuss are very politically motivated or whatever,
really enjoyed it.
so funny when you live in one part of the country you only see that perspective.
It's interesting to see wider world,
I enjoy it.
Hey, thanks a lot, bye.
Thank you,
bye, bye.
I do not know.
How big a city is Rome?
you have heard about Dallas,
crime here is pretty bad .
Rome is pretty small .
I was going to say.
we hear a lot about, New York City.
There is a lot of crime down there.
afraid to go down there because, you hear about people getting mugged.
You leave your car for ten minutes
it is stripped when you come back.
Have you ever been there?
I have not.
Only to the airport.
That is, probably enough to see .
are you in college right now?
the Air Force.
there is a base up here.
Are base,
that's concept.
Are bases safe, you know?
Bases are pretty safe because they check your I D on your way in.
minimize the access.
even so we had a,
at New Years,
we had some people come in and, attack one of the planes. Because they were protesting,
the presence over in the Persian Gulf.
is wonderful.
we lived in Minneapolis.
we moved here about ten months ago.
Dallas is pretty,
we live in which is called Plano.
we are out of the city,
bad everywhere in terms of, the handgun situation, the number of rapes, the number of muggings.
I would not say it is not as bad as New York,
it is pretty scary.
people put bars on their windows in certain neighborhoods
They call them ornamental grates.
they are still bars .
That makes it bad for getting out during a fire.
It really does.
And if you are a little bit claustrophobic
I do not know,
the jails are crowded.
I am not a criminal justice specialist,
I do not know can be done.
I am,
I do not,
I do not know,
it seems to,
I think it is getting worse. Because I keep hearing things
like when
my parents live in Boston.
I went home,
we were watching T V,
this thing came on where of five or six guys went and filmed themselves beating up people in the street robbing
it was really disgusting.
my mom was like, "They should just be all shot right now."
you he ,
Were they teenagers
Like that girl in New York that got beat up by,
when she was jogging
in Central Park,
a couple of years ago?
early twenties.
They were young men.
were they obviously poor or depri ,
That is really stra .
I say, s ,
I know it.
How could they be if they had a camcorder?
Those are a thousand bucks.
Unless they stole it.
that is one big thing down here.
they have
they are not all young.
they are eighteen to twenty four, some of the young men and women.
see the Crime Stoppers ads on television.
they are,
sometimes it is the same people observed
they still can't catch them .
you are wondering how, we lived in Minneapolis and Wisconsin.
there was all kind of,
I, I, I know it is getting worse.
I do not know what the world is or is not.
the dimi ,
in a small town in Wisconsin, near Madison, a young boy somehow got a hold of a shotgun.
And killed his parents and his three brothers and sisters.
the child had,
said that he was twelve years old,
not, displayed any tendencies deviant or disturbed or whatever,
you are thinking to yourself,
I wonder where,
I know.
I do not know.
I wonder where he gets it?
you must,
I think T V is bad. Because they, show all sorts of violence on,
I do not think a lot of parents,
know how it is in the Air Force base.
I just do not think a lot of people, because of the economy, both need to work,
I just do not think a lot of parents are that involved any more.
talk to their kids and take them out.
are not there all the time
the kids are off to their own devices a lot.
And discipline.
I do not know how your folks were,
I sure knew as heck when I was growing up that, my parents were the superior
I was the subordinate.
It was sort of like there were boundaries.
I think today a lot of parents, are ruled by their kids.
I think so definitely.
When you go to a restaurant, and kids are running all over the place. They,
they are not learning how to, boundaries.
in work place too, sometimes.
I do not know how old you are,
you sound a little bit younger than me.
I am in my thirties,
see, even people that work with me that are ten years younger.
That, they kind of have an attitude that , say it,
just what it is.
It is an attitude
the world owes them something.
see that too in the Air Force.
Espec ,
Do you?
A lot of,
especially since a lot of us are engineers where I work.
Are you in the Air Force?
I am in the Air Force.
people outside the Air Force doing engineering get paid a lot more than we do.
all the young engineers are I am just, going,
get it for all it is worth.
I am like, you are the one who signed up.
If you did not want to do it.
the Air Force is one of the m , military experiences.
it is.
I like it a lot .
Pardon me?
I like it so far.
that is,
are you going to be a career person?
I'm digressing,
I do not talk to many people in the
I am,
Probably not.
they pay for my college.
That is the way to do it.
at least the Air Force is,
I do not know, nervous in Dallas.
go to an aerobics class or something.
in a Jazzercise class in a public, parks and rec building.
you are supposed to feel safe,
then there are all these,
does not matter race,
it is an inter racial mix.
you see these guys standing there watching you jump around in your leotards.
I do not even think that way,
you just think to yourself, just,
nobody can think it can't happen to them.
No matter who they are
where they are at,
you never know who is watching, either.
did you,
I do not know, I was in the grocery store this morning.
We, went to New Orleans for four days and came back late last night, driving.
it is about seven hours.
that is a very,
we had never been there.
That is a very, very neat town to visit.
in terms of the French Quarter all of the things
you hear about.
the crime is so bad there.
in all the tourist brochures you read about what you should or should not do.
How to carry
your wallet,
This is New Orleans?
New Orleans,
I would hate to be there during Mardi Gras.
Let me tell,
I would never,
You just do not.
Do not even bother.
It is not worth it.
when we came back, I do not know if you have seen.
I was in the super market this morning
on the cover of TIME magazine, there is a girl, she is in Boston?
She is on the east coast somewhere.
Real attractive young girl.
College freshman, college coed.
I think she is a freshman.
She had been dating a fellow for several
They went back to her dorm room
and date rape.
it just,
looked anguished.
it was really just sad.
did not pick it up and read it,
I should have.
I just looked at the picture and thought, what a world.
I know .
I do not,
You can't trust anybody.
I do not have any, cure,
really scary.
you really can't.
we lease out a really nice two story town home in north Dallas.
they have a real big thing here.
People, even dry cleaners knock on the door and are soliciting,
wants your business kind of thing.
my husband is the kind of guy, sometime,
he was raised on a farm in southern Ohio, near Dayton.
I think sometimes it is just, he and I are very different in terms of that.
basically have started not to trust
anybody in general street smarts.
he opened the door.
I came downstairs
I was real upset
I probably got more nasty than I should have.
I just said, Howard,
my God.
I would not,
hear about people opening the door and getting blown away.
it is not a reason.
I have been to New York.
You should not deny yourself going to visit
and all that.
it is not any worse.
I used to work for a mortgage company that was owned by,
are you from Boston?
Home Owners Savings and Loan in Boston.
I know I never felt,
I have been to downtown New York City
I have been to downtown Boston.
I never felt any safer on Milk Street in Boston, staying at the Meridian,
I did not pay for.
I never felt any safer there than I did in any other city
I have been in,
I would say one thing.
Do not deny yourself the New York experience, but go with people that you know.
I would not want to go by myself.
do not know.
guess I could go on and on about what to do about criminals. F
I think the handgun,
I am not real big on guns
I think our
justice system needs to be stricter. because do it
they get out in a couple of years it seems like.
I do not know how the New York state prison system
They are
booked up .
Are they booked up?
That is a way to put it,
they are booked up.
Are they paroling, like murderers
here it is just a real big deal.
They parole people that have killed police officers
they are out doing it again.
know. Because I am not real up on
a lot of news things.
you just
hear about
it is a lot of repeat crime.
you are like, why are they repeating?
They should have been in there longer.
I know.
you think, not been out of school that long,
it has been at least ten years.
you think to yourself, was it that bad back then?
is it just,
I think that, like you said, television?
Is it just that more people think there is excitement in it, you know?
people that may have been close to the edge just go over because they see something or read something.
It seems like a lot of, i ,
that it is more, like in Boston,
there was a case of, a couple of kids, fifteen year olds.
They wanted to see what it was like to kill someone.
picked on this
kid who was new in town.
they were like, no one was going to miss him anyway,
it like,
that is horrible.
How can you even think like that?
it is, isn't it something?
I am originally from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
I have a niece and nephew.
I just,
my ten year old nephew says things that he is aware of that I am just going, Michael,
how did you hear about that?
it is just, I think kids get too
much too fast.
And all those sort of things.
In Atlanta, where my inlaws live, they had that thing, the high top sneakers,
the Air Jordans, et cetera.
Kids killing each other and beating their brains out.
for the sneakers.
jackets, the team like the Raiders
and the caps.
stealing the hundred dollar jackets.
it is I guess, it goes from the most petty like that to like what you were saying that
That is crime where they videoed.
That is probably one of the most
bizarre I have heard of.
Where they videotape themselves.
It seems crime is turning into a pastime instead of be ...
what do you think the major cause of air pollution or at least in the Boston areas,
the major cause it seems up here is exc ,
I live right on the ocean
it's kind of hard for me to tell what would happen if I lived in some of the valleys inland,
the major cause here, is the car pollution.
We don't have too much industrial pollution.
car pollution seems to be the one and only thing I can really put my finger on here.
that isn't the same in the Washington area because we don't have any major, industry except for, government and services.
transportation situation is such that, all the car pollution absolutely awful.
also the hub of three airports
in this general area there is, National, Dulles, and then, Baltimore, Washington.
interestingly some of the information I've been reading indicates that the amount of air pollution from, airplanes is extraordinary.
Is that so?
I didn't know that.
that's (( always )) something that, about.
most people talk about the noise pollution from airplanes rather than the air pollution.
apparently the air pollution and the fact that it's delivered right up in high altitudes
is a very significant factor.
I would think so.
talked about all types of pollution.
I happen to something the other day at least in the Boston paper there were three things come to note.
One, is that the carbon fluorides that are, being released into the atmosphere are causing even a larger hole in the southern hemisphere in the ozone layer
now they've located an expanding one in the northern hemisphere.
car ,
I'm quite concerned.
I don't think it's involved any longer hair sprays or those th ,
I think I understand it's air conditioning units
we certainly turned into an air conditioned
Society ,
has especially recently .
I know in Florida there's no place you go that isn't air conditioned,
I do quite a bit of business in Washington.
what it's like here.
it's quite,
the un ,
it's really out of the norm not to find something that isn't air conditioned.
I guess refrigerators,
We just had the,
are the same way.
They release that.
That's right.
solutions to this,
would be
I guess to me the first thing is I wish society would get as upset about this as you do get, getting people upset about animal rights.
this is basic.
It's human rights in the sense,
in terms of demanding, it's just not caused
demanding that, we can spend so much money on certain things but that research really be directed toward, improvement of polluting vehicles, and not just cars but also buses, planes. That something can be done. I can't imagine that (( )) ,
th ,
if we can't send people to the moon,
that we can't improve these things.
I think that it can be done simply because,
every car now in America that's been produced for the past fifteen years has what they call a catalytic converter.
no lead gas to the pumps.
that's been done.
There's the lead pollution that problem, essentially I guess because it was at crisis proportions was,
was licked.
I think that are solutions,
that (( )) for buses,
certainly we don't even research anymore.
It's just a matter of passing the law,
passing the law depends on how heavy is.
That's right.
and also to make it economically feasible.
That's right.
That's right.
and also in buses.
I don't know if you ever got caught in a traffic jam behind a bus,
the, the smell is awful
I was reading the other day not to go on with this but that,
diesel fumes actually have less pollutants in them than gasoline fumes.
I guess you're better off sitting behind a bus than a car although really rationalize that while I was sitting there .
even, of course, in the longer term just to get away from fossil fuels.
thinking of research in that direction rather than
taken the intermediate step
I don't think,
fossil fuels are the answer.
up here in New England, where I've,
right close to where I live is the (( Seabrook )) Nucleus site which is,
practically a, guerilla war up here,
I me ,
went on for years.
my daughters marched (( Seabrook ))
I kind of,
my feelings were that we needed this bridge to,
to, to jump
you don't throw the baby out with the bath water,
and condemning nuclear use.
though I think the oil companies have lied to us for years .
we really don't know whether there's enough fossil fuel left
there isn't,
with the pollution issue, fossil fuel is not the way to go anyway.
it is something that's a little frightening
in fact, I,
within our family we have said,
my husband,
I have two sons,
one is already in college in New England,
the other will be going in September,
we just feel that when we leave, this area, going north, not south.
I like the mentality north,
I also like the fresher air up there.
That's right.
that's the way we will be going.
I'd be interested in having spoken with somebody also from the far west on this issue to see how attitudes are.
Texas and Louisiana and, California ranking order, the worst pollutants in America.
I read that the other day.
for a small state it was amazing
it's the industrial pollution I should imagine.
California seems to be taking steps,
read about (( fairly )) ,
The smog and,
fairly stiff laws they put in on cars now enforcing.
again, that didn't occur without a crisis.
Nothing will occur, I guess, without a crisis.
(( even )) California was notorious for its smog years ago,
before it even was an issue,
out here.
the greatest thing that happened to pollution in the last couple of years as far as I'm concerned, is the no smoking rules,
on airplanes and in restaurants.
really is a pleasure for me, although, I guess smokers don't think that.
to me was pollution (( )) ,
that's person , that's personal air pollution .
that was its most personal,
personal, pollution that I can think of.
advance that.
listen I enjoyed speaking with you.
let's hope people that feel the same way .
(( )) something happen.
Right on,
thank you.
You're welcome.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
national health insurance, I think, is a problem inasmuch as the quality of health care that people would receive.
the articles that I've read regarding national health service in Canada and England has indicated that,
what i ,
in line for, four hours to get an aspirin from a doctor.
sort of mixed on this.
I think that answer may lie so much a, national kind of medical thing that England has but more of a, national insurance, sort of clearinghouse or whatever.
I think that, too many,
the problem right now is that we've got too many different health insurances that people have to go through
mentioned Canada.
I think that they have a system where, deals
go to whoever you want but file through
I see.
that way are able to reduce prices because all centralized thing.
think that, again having gone through a period when I was out of work and had to buy health insurance on my own,
if you don't have a company picking up the major portion of your health insurance,
the cost is
was listening, on the radio the other day
they were talking that, something like this,
I think they were talking about the fact that, the money that could be saved, in administrative costs and so forth nationwide by consolidating into sort of a national insurance provider,
they could make it, provide health insurance people who couldn't afford it just by the money they would save.
we're currently, where I'm working now, under Blue Cross.
I don't know what the total cost of the program is
for dependent coverage I'm paying a hundred and seventy dollars month or something like that.
I assume that probably the total is probably,
three fifty to four hundred.
They're probably picking up about half of it.
that's a pretty good policy,
if you had something like one of these,
health maintenance programs,
or one of, whatever the type name is,
H M O.
H M O, you go to the doctor and it only costs you ten dollars and the insurance picks up the rest.
If you tried to buy something like that, be five or six hundred dollars a month for just the cost of something.
fairly expensive.
I ha , I was on an H M O, up until last year
through work.
it was,
I forget how much I paid a month
it more expensive than the regular health care.
the reason quite was I didn't like it,
really kind of did.
the reason I quite was just because doctor certain doctor that we going to was no longer associated with that H M O
decided she wanted stay with that doctor,
we went medical insurance that we have work,
like the, I like the convenience of the H M O a certain respect because even though you're,
once you find the doctor that you like it's not a problem.
a lot of people complain saying I don't want to, have to be told who I need to go to
if you don't have a doctor anyway normally it doesn't really make much difference.
that's right.
Because you can, you find someone you really like
we did find several good doctors.
like you say it's, five dollars an office visit.
my wife was in the hospital daughter
I think her total bill was around three hundred dollars
for everything.
that included, the doctors, the time, hospital everything.
Delivery room and everything.
Delivery room and everything.
a private room because there was a little extra that she had to pay
still included in
It's really nice because their, their attitude is different a regular, a, H M O,
they're trying to prevent a problem keeping the cost down at the front end,
and have you come in,
charge five dollars
you're more willing to go in and try,
(( )) .
to take care of a problem before it grows big.
As to a company's benefit,
to have a program like that because it keeps their employees healthy and on the job.
they don't have to worry about going in paying,
seventy five dollars to have the doctor look at you for ten minutes.
That's a,
I, I really liked it.
don't have to worry about filling out forms, for reimbursement and all or, getting paid eight percent whatever.
You just pay five dollars right then
you're done with it.
here again doctor's practices in hospitals,
have fairly sizable businesses under themselves now.
you take a hospital, the physical plant itself,
you have to pay your share of the operating of that eight story building, when the rooms are empty.
they spread the costs out over, all the patient costs
that's how you come up with aspirin that costs four dollars apiece and things like that.
The horror stories that you hear about people going into the hospital for a week and, it being,
a four thousand dollar bill.
they're also p ,
take ,
they're taking up the cost of people who can't pay.
get people who have to be there and can't afford it
know they're not going to get pa ,
get money from them
have to absorb it somewhere else.
My daughter and son in law had a baby,
here about, what,
be three in August.
their insurance plan that they're under encourages you to shorten your stay in the hospital.
she went in,
she had the baby
she was out in two days time.
it was treated almost like it was an outpatient visit to the hospital,
deductibles didn't apply.
that's the insurance companies are trying to hold costs down is by,
if you'll shorten your stay then we will, waive the deductible.
insurance doing something similar where they're also going to mor ,
what movies have you seen lately?
SOAP DISH.
Which was a,
that was a lot of fun.
It was kind of a silly little film about soap operas and things.
that's something I want to see,
that's on my list to see.
It was a wonderful film
it was cute but not the biggest laugh I've seen.
I saw THELMA AND LOUISE.
did you?
A couple of days ago, and really liked that.
Actually I saw it twice because I liked it so much.
that's also on my list.
disturbing but a good movie.
A disturbing movie,
how do you mean?
it was,
let's see.
an film.
it's with women in it instead of men
that's kind of a
A switcheroo,
that's kind of a twist on the normal thing.
it made me think a lot about,
you would applaud Bruce Willis in DIE HARD if he was doing this
you might not be so
so encouraging,
of (( Susan Sarandon and then Gena Davis )) when they do it.
When the shoe is on the other foot and see how it,
that was kind of interesting.
I really enjoyed it.
I w ,
just reminds me of, back in school
the girlfriends just taking off for a day or something.
that's kind of what it was.
Just getting in trouble and probably not that much trouble
They had started out with that,
then they got into lots of trouble.
Before we found the shopping malls that's what we did.
on my list then.
I also saw that Madonna movie.
It's TRUTH OR DARE
that was pretty scandalous.
it was kind of,
I can imagine.
she's pretty trashy.
interesting .
I guess she does it for the social value of showing you what trash is,
Righ ,
I think she kept saying that,
they talked about her,
was a film of her concert, tour she had taken through around the world.
they were all (( )) to her at the Vatican city and wouldn't let her perform in Rome,
kept saying that her show was not garbage.
It had a social message to it
You just had to find it.
You had to wade through it and find it .
We never quite believed that,
You never quite got to,
I thought that was pushing it a little bit
she (( )) ,
All I know about that woman is that she's an (( marketeer )) .
She is.
She's rich .
she's rich
(( )) she's smart at what she does.
She knows how to do that.
She knows how to twist this around,
What did you think about DANCES WITH WOLVES when you saw it?
we're getting back to last year.
That's probably the last movie I saw. DANCES WITH WOLVES,
I just adored it.
How can I tell you.
a couple years ago, I guess, maybe ten years ago had read (( BURY MY HEART AT WOUNDED KNEE ))
C and,
so, just the general theme of the whole movie was, pretty,
I really liked it a lot.
I mean it was a real consciousness raiser, I guess.
I only bring up (( WOUNDED KNEE )) because that was what ten years ago you read understood, about the
everything went away for a couple years,
now it's back again.
it's sort of a popular view of, what happened way back then.
Of course, no one will ever know.
Really I don't kn ,
I know,
I was,
I wondered if, evil tribe, if they were really as bad as it made them to be.
who knows.
it sort of showed two different types of tribes
one was a warring tribe,
the other one was, vegetarian kind of, feel good tribe.
Right .
sort of thing,
there possibly were because you know you always have conflict in the world.
Nobody can get along peacefully .
I wonder
I thought the ,
they made a big deal about how film was such a big leap for people were the ancestors of Indian tribe
was so wonderful that they done that
wonder how the ancestors of this warlike tribe if they were offended by the film,
I see.
if it,
you didn't,
hear any press about that.
I thought it was a very interesting movie.
I think so.
have come to respect a little bit more what went on here,
who knows how it's supposed to all end .
huh .
broad scope if, it had a much bigger thing I thin ,
meaning to me
I think about, just the meaning of, the freedom of this country what that really meant.
that was taking over somebody else's freedoms.
And sort of trampling that
meant something bigger I think.
still it was a fantas ,
I loved the buffalo scene.
I thought Kevin Costner was just,
I got a little sick of his mug on the screen every,
I know the ,
three minutes,
he's the director,
just thought it was a really interesting, intense film.
that's good.
Intense I think is the word for it because three hours went by really fast.
it was, it was good.
I looked at my watch only a few times,
which is a good thing.
Ate a lot of popcorn.
bad mood,
I don't know why.
Did it really?
we di ,
there were three of us who went.
We were just all when it was over.
we decided that may be the mark of a good film.
It made us think.
It made you think.
we were grouchy.
We felt guilty for being,
there are no answers,
I know
had , nothing to do with it.
can make you crabby, yes.
We were not responsible,
we still felt the thick blame for,
that's true.
what had gone on.
We could have,
they sort of candy coated the western story for many years,
when the truth,
it always balances out one way or the other
once you get the whole story
Have you seen any other movies?
Because you sound like you see a lot.
Righ ,
I do.
I'm just out of school
I've seen,
a lot of mo ,
don't have a job
I (( shouldn't )) go see movies all the time.
there you go .
I rented a good movie, called CINEMA (( PARADESO ))
which is an Italian movie
which is probably the best movie I've seen ever.
It was just,
It's, story about a little boy in village,
he, owns a,
he works in movie the projectionist.
There's man who's the projectionist
he befriends this old man,
it just tells about their friendship that lasts through all these years.
it's just,
if you don't mind reading subtitles,
I thought I had to kind of get beyond that.
Those little,
reading the little words at the bottom of the screen
I just laughed and cried
I'll have to write that down.
I really loved it.
That was great one.
other than that I,
I'll have to write that,
did you see TEXASVILLE?
Are you into,
No, I had ,
Larry McMurtry?
I hadn't.
I had read, THE LAST PICTURE SHOW
that's out on video now
I haven't seen it.
I was interested in reading TEXASVILLE before I saw the movie.
Did you like it?
read a lot of Larry McMurtry books
TEXASVILLE is just like that.
It's very peculiar circumstances
and very peculiar things that people do with each other
it's just sort of a,
Do you have annual family reunions
my mother's side of the family at one time,
they, for as long as I can remember, have had, a yearly reunion,
back, early on they used rotate them different people's houses,
in the family.
All local.
Were they all in Dallas?
not, no,
this was, I am actually from Mississippi,
C and,
was around there generally.
that's where the family
Just from city to city then (( )) .
it was not only in Mississippi, in some other places,
as well,
a big deal,
they tried centralize it in one spot.
in the past couple of years they had it at a state park every year.
We rent a pavilion do that
that's usually works out to be pretty good.
they will rent a pavilion on a weekend,
Do you go back?
I have not gone back lately.
In fact, this past Sunday reunion,
I did not get to go.
I have,
Is it choice or just business
Not getting to go.
just, the distance involved
just not,
I have a younger daughter now
it's kind of hard to there,
and everything.
I am going hopefully next year get to go back, cause, a lot of the family has not seen, my daughter,
Do you have brothers and sisters?
I have one brother,
is your mother still living?
you go back and visit with her anyway.
Would you not?
either way there was family reunion time,
Right, usually see her a,
or not,
couple times a year
that's (( big )) thing.
I do enjoy the reunions.
The only problem is that now, originally when we had them, they were mainly my mother's ,
My mother's father's family had quite a few,
brothers and sisters.
it was a large reunion of that group, from that descendants.
a lot of those people have,
at time, they all knew one another.
now it has gotten, that, a lot of those people have died off,
what we are left with is relatives
The next generation,
of that group.
it's not quite as close as it used to be.
I think people feel less of a desire to really go.
I know that,
do you think that it's less close than it used to be?
just think ti ,
they were a ,
were all brothers and sisters a lot
they were all in the same location.
back around, in the twenties and thirties when they were growing up, they were all located together,
in one small community.
time grew, when time went on the family grew and moved away and so forth.
now when they come together generally,
say the kids of those people who are not, anywhere near one another I do not think they feel closeness that they used to be there.
Which is a shame
that's just how it is.
My mother was complaining last year about th ,
it's dwindling down every year,
that's just, I think
Is that family's lack of priority, anymore, maybe (( )) ,
that's just ,
we get so involved in our work lives and just,
social lives and so forth.
I think that's some of it.
I have,
it's just the way, I think society is now, is that have the extensive family we used to.
It's more of unit,
tend to try to do things, I think with our immediate family,
as opposed to the extended family. Of people that we may or may not remember or know, very well.
(( )) It really makes an effort to,
do this anymore.
it requires a lot of effort
to do that sort of thing.
used to enjoy going,
I still do kind of enjoy it,
it's not as many people there that I enjoy seeing.
it's going just for the sake of getting together,
I think for the family.
Do you correspond with anybody other than your mother and brother that's in that group?
On a regular basis, not just Christmas cards.
not really.
then again, have some aunts that, I do.
That's about th ,
my mother's sisters,
I feel closer to them, because I kind of grew up with them.
as, for the rest of that group, no not really.
generally when I was growing up a lot of those people, the only time I ever saw them was at the reunion,
you do not really feel really close to them.
In father's family, we get together every year at a different location, either Dallas or Oklahoma City.
They had chosen Santa Barbara, California for this summer did not get enough people that were willing to go that far,
because most of us live either in the midwest, or in the Texas, Oklahoma area.
so they cancelled that one and, are looking next year bringing it back closer,
we have
that circulates,
it usually goes through me twice a year
what you do is take out the last letter you wrote that's on the bottom and put new letter on the top,
that's the way it's kept in order.
then, about twice a year then you are kept up with what is going on and when you meet them at the reunion, you do not feel like, I do not know anything about this person.
You have,
That's a good idea.
read something about what is going on and about their children and so forth.
you are kind of,
half way acquainted that way.
that's been a, that's been a nice way of keeping us all aware of each other, I think.
We tried to start that in my husband's family.
His mother's side decided they were going to have a reunion a couple of years ago,
I said, let's start this letter,
it just never (( ))
my husband's sisters started it and sent it to us
that's as far as it got.
I sent it,
on to the next one,
we are going in a couple of weeks to the next one, in Scottsdale, Arizona,
for that family.
We are real glad we got together because since time there were only one sister and one sister in law of the original family left.
the sister in law died
the sister is in a nursing home,
we are glad that we took that opportunity two years ago.
since I initiated the call, I guess I'll start off first.
number one, I have absolutely no problem with random testing.
I spend an awful lot of time traveling on the job
I feel, I would be very comfortable if they would do drug testing for, particularly airline pilots and such.
I'd feel much more comfortable than I do now, based on what I've been hearing in the newspapers.
I really don't have a problem with it.
Yeah. F
I don't either.
I don't work, at home right now.
I stay home with my children.
my husband works
they do have that at his place of employment
neither of us have a problem with it.
We've, particularly, like you said with the things that the airlines such.
a scary thing to know that, you just don't know what people are doing
before they go to work.
advertisements on television lately have been so,
there have been so many.
just about
train wrecks and things like
I feel like,
probably just for our own safety when we're traveling and things that would be something I'd like to know that's going on.
happen to be,
my job is I'm supervisor of personnel safety for the world's largest paint company,
it's very near and dear to me when we start talking about drug testing for random sampling and testing for cause, this type of thing.
even in our field we have people that are in very high risk jobs
we, at the present time, do not have random testing.
I am pushing towards that.
honestly feel if people have nothing to hide, they shouldn't have a problem with it.
if they are trying to hide something, then I have to know that, because major liabilities.
Not only with themselves, but with other employees.
I really,
talking about sports and sports personalities and all this stuff that would prefer having doctors and airline pilots tested
on a random basis.
have a real fear,
that at some point something's going to happen.
they're showing it with AIDS,
to start doing something with the drugs .
I really have no problem with it.
unfortunate, I think, that everyone doesn't have that opinion.
talking in our group of friends that they just feel it's an invasion of privacy and things like that,
in the long run, it seems to me, it's kind of like what they keep talking about AIDS testing with doctors or dentists and things
and how that,
they feel that's not fair and whatever,
those kind of things I'd like to know
It wouldn't be,
in my opinion,
had a lot of dental work done,
the last dentist didn't even use gloves at all,
that kind of,
that kind of thing really kind of concerns me.
that scares me because if the way they are,
if I were a dentist, I'd want to be protected, too.
you would think so.
That is, because,
I worked for a dentist
come in contact with a lot blood and things like that
it's real, real dangerous.
would think,
with all the accidents, just everything happening with,
airlines just drive me crazy.
People are afraid to fly now.
just because they don't know what their pilot's been doing things like that
I don't know.
located, do know Texas Instruments has random drug testing.
I think they've had it for several years.
they're program they had, I don't think had a lot of, problems associated with it,
my brother in law happens to work there
sounded very positive.
think it's great.
would like, I would encourage it.
I'm pushing our company towards that. (( )) .
if they do find someone is, having a problem with drugs
and they can get them the help that they need.
As opposed to just letting the problem go on any, support.
And whatever,
a lot of people, seems like, trying to hide that
from their employer and friends and family and things
too many people are just dying.
Particularly in our area.
I don't know what the crime is like where you are,
the crime rate here is just astronomical.
Ours is changing.
is changing,
it's increasing.
very nice suburb
it's unbelievable what's going on and
too loose.
It's too free.
I just got a piece of paper the other day, that now they have these,
I have two children, under two
I got a piece of paper my husband's office,
it's talking about these, drug tattoos now
that they have got.
a sticker
it's for kid,
The question was on lawn and garden work.
how do you like it?
I don't do much of it here.
I'm originally
there are no bugs there.
I didn't mind getting in the dirt there,
boy, I'll tell you what,
once I see these bugs around here, I'm just kind of out of it.
what kind do you have? .
roaches and,
Do they really?
Cockroaches are awful here.
Just awful.
I know somebody that lives there,
they never mentioned that problem .
it's a d ,
maybe they didn't mention it because it's just kind of a fact of life around here.
They probably just take it for granted then.
It must be.
If they lived here, a lot of people I know just say, I just stomp on them.
It doesn't matter.
They make good fertilizer in the garden.
(( yuck )) .
Me, personally can't,
(( )) I don't have that problem,
mine is mainly
we kind of have an understanding that, said I'll do inside work you do outside work.
I get into the gardening part of it, the fun part,
like putting in the annuals and things like that.
huh .
it dirty .
No .
say that's not exactly my favorite thing either really .
I don't know.
I thought, this is going to be interesting.
Two bits I'll get a man to talk to me,
because they get stuck doing it all.
although I do know a lot of my friends do like all the gardening work.
this year we put in a new lawn in a new home
we've been fighting a drought here this summer
and getting into fall.
Today we just had a lot of rain .
it's kind of nice.
I don't know how yours has been.
it's been real hot here lately.
we've had to actually have the air conditioning on and everything
doe ,
it's supposed to rain again now, this weekend.
I see.
we're leaving tomorrow
we're going down to New Orleans
from Ohio since we're right near Lake Erie
this is going to be a switch for us for a week
going down there,
I think we'll probably experience some of your weather although I think they have more humidity.
as far as the gardening and things like that goes I don't know, about, how much I really do enjoy it myself.
Do you like it at all?
not here.
it's just, here
I just can't stand to even get out dirt .
how about when you were in Colorado?
I liked it a little bit
I didn't,
I was working at that time full time and didn't have a lot of time,
for that
that I think really, hampered it a little bit.
then, too, where we had the dry summer and we had to sprinkle constantly. My water bill was high.
if you have that on a regular basis in Texas, I think I would go with something very dry to keep it off,
with children, you probably don't have time anyhow
get into it.
Not really .
It's so, very good.
. huh.
I guess we've kind of covered our subject matter,
Sounds like i ,
since neither one is really into gardening, are we?
Afraid not.
hopefully they'll give a subject I like one of these times .
Something I really know a lot about.
Wh ,
nice talking to you.
Nice talking with you.
bye bye.
you said that you live in Coppell.
what is your house like?
It's a two bedroom, two baths duplex.
that's neat,
is it one you're renting or buying?
we own it,
our side .
that's kind of neat that you can
even though it's a duplex, you can still buy.
That's good.
Do you have any children?
Do you?
I have two children,
our home is really too small for us right now .
Ours is, too.
We outgrew it when we moved in.
we moved from an apartment
that was really small,
at the time we just had a little baby that was five months old
we moved into this house in Garland,
it's in one of the older areas of town
one thing I really like is it has big trees everywhere
lots of shade and squirrels and birds and
real pretty,
house is real small
it has less than a thousand square feet
it's real little.
You all are cramped .
now I have a daughter,
now my,
the one that was five months old is seven years old
that's three and a half
and have all these clothes, and
toys and stuff that we're just trying to find places to put,
how many bedrooms is it?
they advertised it as a three bedroom house
because it has a built on addition room,
the room that's built on doesn't have a closet
the people that lived here before us did use it for a bedroom
we have always just put our computer and extra toys and books and
it's kind of a catch all room .
it sure is nice to have it
when the kids come over to play
they all go out there to play with the Barbies
and that kind of stuff,
How fun.
that works out good.
I'm thankful I have two girls, because they're in bunk beds,
C and
so, they can share a room
and, make for more space that way.
how old's the youngest?
She's three and a half
right now we have their clothes on, double racks, in the closet
we made a higher and a lower
it works out fine,
they're just about to get too tall ,
where the dresses are beginning to drag
we're going to have to figure out a new idea.
kind of looking around and wanting to move into a bigger home
hoping to be able to do that within a year or so
that would be nice.
That's what we'd like to do.
is Coppell a nice area to live?
it's a wonderful place to live,
I don't have any kids,
I don't really know,
they say that we have wonderful schools.
I think I've heard a lot, about Coppell schools, that they're real good
that's neat.
hope to have children,
are you not planning on having any,
I don't think so,
I see.
do you have any pets?
of course, those are my kids
I have two dogs.
do they stay inside,
they're inside dogs.
They're my babies.
what are the colors in your house?
kind of a mauve and gray.
I bet that's pretty.
the kitchen's kind of country pink and country blue,
it's all done in cows,
I'm a cow nut .
that's neat.
I like cows, too.
our house was redo ,
our house is very old also
it's like thirty seven years old
it was redone before we moved in, which,
I'm thankful for that,
it was redone at the time probably when earth tones were in
everything is
the carpet's kind of a tan and brown
and has, paneling in the living room, and of tans and lots of browns
the good thing is you can bring out other colors from that
that's worked out good.
kitchen they put real pretty blue and tan, wallpaper
had done it up with blues,
that's nice,
sounds pretty.
we've enjoyed living here.
It's close to my, oldest daughter's school
that makes it really handy, too
she really likes her school,
we are so close to shopping
That's an important factor there .
how about in Coppell?
I've always imagined it kind of from everything.
now we have that new mall in Lewisville
that's just a mile or two from our house
that's nice.
when we first moved to Coppell, we didn't even have a grocery store
now we have four
Coppell's not really big enough to support grocery stores
it does sound like it's definitely growing.
very much.
In fact, it's about the size now,
I moved down here from Chicago, what, twenty three years ago
to Lewisville
Coppell's now about the size that Lewisville was when, when I moved down here.
I see.
when we first moved here, we moved here from Lubbock
we almost moved to Lewisville,
that was
our second choice, behind Garland,
thought we might buy a mobile home,
do you have an opinion on credit cards?
I do .
You do?
do you think about them?
I think they get a lot of people in trouble.
I have one right now
I just got it about months ago
I find that it makes it a lot easier to get things that you generally wouldn't get .
you don't stop to realize that,
you charge this for twenty, charge that for twenty, charge this for twenty,
pretty soon you owe a hundred dollars
you don't stop to think about it.
I got in trouble when I was in the service quite a few years ago ten to fifteen thousand dollars in trouble.
my goodness.
I eventually got it all paid.
Now I carry one.
I have a gas card and a Visa card.
I never use them unless I need to .
That's good.
D ,
made a rule with myself when I got one that if I couldn't pay it in full every month that I'd have to rip it up,
That's a good idea.
Stops all them interest rates,
interest rates aren't none too shallow these days anyway.
I know a lot of people that get in trouble with them especially,
we have,
I'm in Lubbock
we have a bunch of college kids around here going to Tech,
they seem to get in trouble with them a lot.
a couple friends too that have about three of them maxed out .
they can't do anything but work to try to pay them off.
one of my friends hers is up to nine hundred dollars
like two hundred dollars a month because she's going to school.
that's just enough to pay rent and buy like thirty five dollars worth of food a month. pay for her monthly fee twen ,
have to pay twenty dollars each month is the
something like that.
all she's paying is interest on hers every month.
It just seems crazy me
my wife got in trouble one time with hers.
She was making forty five dollars a month I think.
fifteen dollars of it was because she was over the limit
fifteen dollars of it was interest
she was only paying in it fifteen dollars a month.
that was before we got married,
we sat down and talked about it and discussed it
come out pretty good.
Now we have a eighteen year old that's fixing to get out of high school and go to college.
That's the first thing he wanted.
Was a Visa card?
my goodness.
we kind of discussed that a little bit and shot that idea down right quick.
I bet.
don't know.
I'm about sick of mine right now.
I don't,
I think they're too readily accessible
there's too many companies out there that are willing to give them to you and
you can always file bankruptcy to get out of it,
that's a lot of pain and hassle.
my parents were growing up and we couldn't afford everything, we didn't have such things as credit cards.
We just waited until time come around that we could afford it.
we had all the necessities,
. I very seldom use a credit card on necessities.
I always use it for something I want not something I need.
my parents are really good about not using credit cards.
They are against it .
I don't think they like the fact that I have one either.
I think if were stringent as say home mortgage loan or something like that where you have to, be able to prove that you can afford this and the rest of your bills, we probably wouldn't have the problems we have.
Of course, we wouldn't have the retail market we have either
I guess they trade one for the other.
I disagree with it,
they still trade one for the other.
that's good.
it sounds like you kind of got your head together in the credit department for,
you sound pretty young,
right now.
Are you?
Yeah .
just going to school working
All right.
it does kind of get in the,
when you want something that,
last weekend was homecoming
I needed
a pair of shoes
I just went out and bought them
on my credit card.
I didn't really have the money to do it
it's pretty easy .
Yeah .
It sure is.
do you just have two kids
we have a eighteen year old, seventeen year old, and a seven year old.
I'm from Plano, Texas.
are you?
right now I'm out in Provo, Utah going to B Y U
Mormon then?
Yep .
all right .
this is a extra long one.
What's that?
They're giving us a lot of time .
have too much traffic on Saturdays .
Have you done a lot of this?
fifteen or twenty I guess.
Do you do it every day?
I try to every day.
get calls at work,
I get calls at home,
Wha ,
that's an idea that's been a long time.
I don't know that it's ever been seriously considered, as far as close to passing, any legislation or anything like that.
I believe Israel does that, don't they for their,
I think so.
everybody something.
I don't kn ,
theirs is, in fact, one year of military service for everyone.
I believe that's right.
I don't know that that's really what we're talking about.
I don't think
I think of that.
couldn't be.
Military service is not that much
the, used to do it
the idea that, there are things do need to be done that could be done
country would benefit from one year everybody and even out
for kids in high school, it could be in the summertime.
that's a thought.
could even be done while they're doing another job,
while they're doing, a job to make money.
it's, such a grassroots idea that it,
I think the family would have to be involved in it.
people would have to be convinced that,
think basic message is that giving is better than receiving .
that's not the kind of society we have right now.
I'm afraid you're right there.
anything like this that came up whether it,
it quickly would be significant industry figuring out how to get around it where people,
(( There's )) lots and lots of volunteer programs
my opinion that most of those involve adults.
Adults who have the time to give the desire
cou ,
younger people feel like it's not open to them,
I don't know.
it should be if it's not.
I suspect that, that that's not the thing. don't feel it's open to them
it's just that they, are more self centered if you will and considering,
(( a voluntary )) (( )) ,
it is kind of an introspective time of life.
have actually started to, areas economically,
less advantaged areas.
promote service on the part of the kids some of those people.
at least that's a step in the right direction I guess.
now know it di ,
think you're right that that's way that the society these days is going,
think try to figure out some way turn that around that everybody,
unfortunate because when you do,
I do volunteer work for the American Lung Association.
I to work for American Heart and just recently for the Leukemia Society.
no question that that kind of service you get a lot more out of it the people involved.
really a gift to yourself
a really important lesson to learn.
maybe that's why we have so many people in society who are really happy,
that could be.
if you concentrate all of your energies and efforts on yourself, you're just kind of down the tube, .
it really is better to give then to receive.
agree with that,
I don't know what has set it off or what
it certainly seems to me the last twenty three years, things definitely gone towards, very much the concentration on self perspective in terms,
what was the last car repair you had?
Just recently I was kind of laughing heard the switchboard talking about the question because, I had to have my, radiator flushed
it was getting rusty.
the thing that they forgot to do was also look at the hose,
I had gone about two days with my new radiator flushed
the hose burst.
I was stranded out on the highway .
Did you crack the block or what?
didn't do that thank goodness,
there seemed to be enough antifreeze to do that
it cost me all kind of money, to have that repaired after they said they were going to, they had repaired it.
a horrible experience
I see.
just recently.
You got lucky you didn't ruin the whole engine though.
That can be pretty serious.
I know.
I know.
What about you?
I guess it's been awhile for me.
I'd sa ,
it's been about a year.
I had water pump break on my car.
I was traveling,
I was going on my way home from Thanksgiving
it broke like in the middle of nowhere.
I had to get it towed and then fixed
big pain.
Especially when you're out on the highway.
that's where I was.
Luckily someone came by and gave me a ride.
I know, living in Dallas,
we've got, bumper to bumper eight lanes of traffic
Yeah .
to have the,
your car is (( fuming ))
and everything.
It's already a hundred degrees
you don't need that too.
shoot .
my car is getting old.
it's about six years old now,
so is mine .
I got it right out of college
starting to show the wear and tear now.
I'm hoping mine gets me through.
I got until May until I'm out.
(( when I cross )) that one I'll be okay.
was my graduation present to myself,
that's nice .
I know
I've been thinking, especially now is a good time to buy a car.
Go ,
know if I want to, pay all these repairs now to start getting it fixed when it's starting to breakdown.
I don't want to do too much on mine because it will be worth more than the car is
it's not worth it .
that's true.
I agree with you there.
I don't know,
need to have it and replace some of the belts.
I was looking at the,
tires need to be replaced
I was thinking just a lot of money
might as well buy me a new car for that.
I got new tires last winter too
I'm like, that's the last major purchase for this thing.
It's not worth it.
you have to, in Pennsylvania, boy,
you have to really have your car winterized and stuff,
huh .
we get some killer winters up here in the mountains.
Lot of snow and a lot of cold.
especially don't you have what, a lot of salt on the ground?
at times there's a lot of it.
You got to clean out the underneath of your car all the time when you get a chance.
rust body too,
I haven't had a big problem with that though.
I've been pretty lucky there.
I think they get the new (( Z bart )) stuff and everything to where you can,
that's usually pretty good.
You just rinse it off after the winter is over and
done with it.
go like that
I usually like to do most repairs on my own though.
Do you?
just because that way I know what's wrong with my car and what it needs and what it really doesn't.
if something goes wrong, I know who to blame.
think I'm getting too old for all that.
had four brothers
they used to drag me out underneath the car, and stuff
all that stuff
think I'd much prefer to pay the twenty two ninety five go have it done now
I can get my hands dirty.
I'm just to that age I guess.
You just don't have,
your time becomes very precious
working on the car is just not one of those things I want to spend my time on anymore .
More fun things to do.
Absolutely, absolutely.
I'm trying to,
I just need one,
I had two cars there for a while
I wouldn't have to worry about which car was going to run.
that's nice.
it became a hassle trying to keep up and maintain both of them.
One is bad enough .
one was bad enough.
I think I got rid of the wrong one .
a lot of repairs done this one
something else .
are our five minutes up? .
I was just wondering that .
I didn't set the time or anything to,
I didn't either.
(( put )) ,
this must be hard category.
I guess.
unless you're, big do it yourselfer. to, fix up your own cars things like that.
I guess they were talking about experiences.
my parents live in Ohio
do know something about really cold weather.
I've always lived down here in the south,
I took my car up there to their house
I guess I had a crack in the block,
when I got up there the car,
All right,
let's see,
How old are you Lisa?
I'm twenty.
How old are you?
I'm older.
Older .
Older than you are.
we are supposed to talk about places we like to go.
I'm going,
I'm calling from, Provo, Utah,
I'm from Plano, Texas.
you are from Plano.
My sister lives in Plano.
her husband is the new Director of Admissions at, University of Texas at Dallas.
My dad used to work at U T D also.
where's your favorite place to go?
generally we just go on family vacations to Arizona.
My grandparents live there.
That's generally our usual summer vacation.
Where in Arizona?
I've never been to Tempe.
That's where I'd like to go.
What do you like about Tempe?
mainly just being with family is it.
We just hang out
my grandparents have a pool
we go swimming
Pretty hot isn't it, in the summer?
we keep cool just by going swimming
it's fun to be with my cousins.
They're up there also, my grandparents and
That's good.
my cousins.
Been to Hawaii?
have you?
in fact, I just got some reservations.
I'm going to go for, almost two weeks this winter.
my goodness.
It's the longest,
actually I lived there,
I was there longer,
two weeks is the longest vacation I'll have ever taken there,
I'm kind of looking forward to that one.
Around Christmas time?
in March.
We're going to go in March after my children's birthdays and get all that business out of the way.
I think, I would like to go to Arizona.
I was in Phoenix
it was rainy and icky.
It was the coldest it's been there ever in January ,
I think. It's very cold.
do you
I would like to go to Tempe.
travel a lot
Do we travel a lot?
some, yeah.
travel agent.
I have been up until just a few months ago.
I'm thinking of going back to work .
you know a lot of good vacation spots,
a lot of good places to go.
you definitely need to go to Hawaii.
Very definitely.
That's your favorite?
it is my favorite.
My husband hasn't been to Europe yet
I'd like to take him there.
he's traveled all over the United States
I haven't.
I haven't been down south.
I'd like to go to New Orleans.
Have you been there?
I haven't.
do you live?
live in Yakima, Washington.
it's cold and rainy today.
It's yucky.
we've had some pretty nice weather.
We played tennis outdoors until last week,
that's a pretty good deal.
do you go to school in Provo, Utah?
I do.
Do you use NuSkin skin care.
They're located
I work
in Provo.
for NuSkin .
Do you?
I'm a NuSkin person.
I sell NuSkin, too.
my goodness.
I am my only b ,
and best cus ,
not only and best
I'm my best customer.
Great .
Since we're not supposed to talk about this, though, is there anything more intensive for the eye area than the eye cream?
Do you know?
I don't,
the rejuvenating cream is the only
I have that, too.
other thing I would use.
I'm forty two,
I need something,
I need more.
Than the intensive eye?
I didn't know if there was anything else.
I use the Celltrex.
NuSkin is wonderful.
I think it's a wonderful product.
Do you use it?
I do,
we get free products every month
my gosh.
That's great.
now I'm getting about sixty bucks a month, free products
I've worked there about a year.
That's good.
Are they good to work for?
they're wonderful to work for.
That's great.
Yep .
we're supposed to be talking about places to go
you have not been to Europe.
Do you go to school?
Do you ski?
I ski, yes.
you probably ski very well in Utah.
I don't .
Actually since I grew up in Texas I've only been here about two years and
have gone skiing about each season.
Why did you move to Utah?
to school?
At B Y U,
is that where B Y U is?
I know some people that went to B Y U.
That's great.
Pretty good.
I do like to ski.
down there.
said I do like to ski.
where, have you skied?
kind of nice being up here just because it's all a vacation in itself when you get to go.
If you like that kind of thing .
you're a sophomore.
I am actually
Or junior?
a junior.
You're a junior.
Beginning of my junior year.
Good for you.
What are you studying?
Good for you.
You sound like a girl that has it together.
I would just encourage you to do a little traveling, though, before you get married.
Because when you
You think,
get married, you won't have the money or the time.
I know.
be in any hurry.
You really should go to Europe.
I went to Europe for six weeks after I graduated from college
that was just,
could have had that or a down payment on a new car
I took the trip.
it was great?
I traveled with a group of sixteen other students.
Actually was two other graduating seniors besides myself,
we just had a ball.
We stayed at,
How long did you get to stay there?
six weeks.
It was wonderful,
you should think about doing something like that.
I just had a friend that got back from Europe
she was there all winter semester.
We're supposed to talk about crime in the city.
seems like all big cities have plenty of that nowadays, doesn't it?
think it's
statistics, obviously, vary greatly.
I always thought of Dallas as being a fairly safe place.
it is,
our crimes up here, as I think it must be in most cities now,
I was listening to the news the other day
they said they thought the reason it was up so was because so many people are without work nowadays,
economy's so bad .
Do you really believe that?
been up every year for many years
the economy hasn't been,
this bad for so long, has it?
That's a good point .
That's just what they quoted over the news.
I don't know if I believe that or not,
does seem up
What kind of newspaper do you get down there?
What kind?
pretty good newspaper.
we have two, the MORNING NEWS and the, TIMES HERALD.
MORNING NEWS seems to have the largest circulation.
I think it's a pretty good,
it's a locally owned paper.
The HERALD is owned, I think, by the TIMES out of, L A, or somewhere.
do they play up the local crime angles
they don't,
not really,
they don't play it up, I don't think.
is too much of it,
too many homes broken into.
We had fact about,
last year sometime our home was broken into.
this is a topic of personal interest.
I didn't think ours ever would be
so many in our neighborhood had been,
because we live on a corner
and back up to a real, highly traveled main street.
we were, so,
you saw this happening in your neighborhood
you figured it wouldn't happen to you.
Sort of, yeah.
I never did get a security system,
since that happened, I certainly have.
what kind of system do you have?
It's, I guess , just a standard. , with doors and the, infrared
Pre ,
Pretty standard.
Is this, is this one with some company services you and
takes your calls and all that stuff?
It's monitored and all that.
is that a necessary feature to have somebody, at the other end of the line
is it enough just to have a thing that makes loud noise?
I think, the thing that makes a lot of noise suffice.
I really do.
this deal that was part of it for, three years or so
to pay the unit off or whatever.
the monitoring is not that bad, though
we've goofed it up,
several times you'll hit the wrong key, not intentionally or something
they call back pretty quickly,
all right.
to answer your question, I think,
I think, that is a pretty good deterrent in itself,
whether it,
you got a sign up there that says you got this alarm system .
what if a burglar comes along and cuts your phone line?
it's got a back up system that doesn't work supposedly. if it's cut supposedly it notifies them anyway . Supposedly.
How does it do that?
Who knows,
that's a selling point.
does these things pretty good.
Boy, they sure advertise nowadays.
you all have a pretty high crime rate up there?
I'm not saying it's any higher than anybody else's.
Down here, we seem to,
not here,
the statistics seem to say that.
I don't know.
think it's the murder capital of the country now.
Is that right?
I would gather probably from drugs.
I think that's the reason it's so high everywhere.
I don't think there's anyplace,
used to,
years ago, you thought, these little small cities and all, wouldn't have that problem,
they do.
We've had relatives that their children were just as involved in it, as anyone,
what's the solution?
That's a good question.
I don't know,
I don't know what the solution is.
I really don't.
all these politicians hay over,
being anticrime,
they haven't seemed to have changed anything.
Th ,
nothing seems to change.
I'm not sure that anything will because people not want to buy it
they want to buy it,
Supply and demand.
Long as somebody wants to buy it, somebody going to provide it for them .
I don't know what the solution is,
I really don't .
I don't think anyone does, in fact.
do you have a pet?
I have two cats.
Two cats,
you're lucky.
two fish.
Your two fish.
what do you have?
my husband,
you know, how, sometimes when you marry someone that you get along on everything except one major thing.
My husband is a hunter, fisherman, outdoorsman, Marlboro type person who had to have a sporting dog.
we have a black Labrador.
Beautiful, gorgeous black Labrador,
to me, he belongs up in the field, in the
ranch, in the farm
Does he sleep in your house?
because we finally negotiated that I was losing my mind, he sleeps in the laundry room
he goes out for the day.
is a beautiful dog
he is wonderful with our little girls
comes from a purebred line
there's nothing you could say bad about him, except that I was more of a cat or a small dog person
that you could sit in the chair and cuddle.
this is huge.
course, when he runs around the yard, he just digs,
he doesn't know that he's tearing up things,
he does.
the worst part that I had with him,
was when he was, about eight months old
I did not know what to expect from a dog having not had one,
I left him in the kitchen with the little baby gates up while I was gone for about an hour.
I came home
he had ripped my wallpaper off my wall.
my word.
it was in the floor
I just about lost it
I called
I said, come home and get your dog.
he said, puppies just chew when they're nervous and wish you had told me
it was about eight months later, he ate a piece of the linoleum.
He kept picking at it
I didn't kn ,
tile in the kitchen and picked a hole in it .
the last thing he did was, when I had sat out a whole lot of begonias in the backyard, he dug them all up and brought them to the porch.
I told my husband,
I said, it's either me or the dog,
he looked at me like,
Good bye .
He loves this dog
every night when he comes home from work, he hugs it and talks to him
he's a good dog,
it's one of those things I'm just having to get used to
that's why I laughed when they called with the topic.
I thought, boy, do I have a pet .
grew up with cats
I'm very comfortable,
I love my cats.
I had one cat for eighteen years.
I got her when I lived in Hawaii.
Before I even got married I had my cat.
She's old.
Isn't she?
had to have her put to sleep last
I started to say
then you broke your heart.
it was awful,
it was just awful.
she just sat there on my lap,
She waited
Bless your heart.
it was awful.
That makes me feel so bad.
her hair,
the bad thing was, though, she would pee in my husband's shoes.
no .
she just liked his shoes
he'd have these dress sh ,
hundred dollar shoes.
no .
it was just bad.
my closet
it was, something.
that's awful,
I never heard of that before.
it was terrible.
once she did it, then
if our shoes sat side by side, she would pee in my husband's shoes.
She must have known he didn't like her or something.
Or the smell or something.
the closet doors,
and would clean the carpets
dear, it was just awful.
That was very funny.
your cat sleep in the house?
house cats.
have two cats right now.
of course.
They sleep with my kids.
my fourteen year old son has an extra pillow on his bed
just for the cat.
the cat doesn't destruct does it?
it doesn't do anything.
no, I
I'm not going to have a dog.
We've had two dogs
they both got ran over.
After we had them for several years, just nice little outside dogs
were just my kids' friends,
when I would go running
the last one got hit, as she was following across the road to the school.
It was awful.
It was just,
that is.
they do dig up
wreck things
I'm not a
They do wreck things.
dog person.
I'm not either.
I'm not either
it's just been,
I wouldn't want a Lab.
It sounds beautiful,
He's beautiful
it's just one of those concessions,
I just had to make,
I kind of ignore him.
today's the first cold we've had in Texas
it's really cold and drizzly
it's freezing
people are doing their fires
I brought him in because he's just a wet mess out there
he's in the laundry room with this little carpet square
he's just huddled up like, if you'll be nice to me, I won't make any trouble,
my daughters both have hamsters.
how old are your girls? .
They're eleven and eight
gave in at Christmas
their cages real clean.
It always smells of cedar
they just sleep and eat bits of apple and carrots and,
I think they're cutting us off.
somebody's trying to cut in on my line
I don't want to answer.
I'll just wait.
got incoming calls
I don't know why, body's calling.
hate to cut it off,
I think
I understand.
they would cut us off,
we'll just wait.
Whoever it is will call back.
they'll cut us off pretty soon.
it's somebody calling for my kids,
I know.
it's my son,
I know it is.
My older boy. He never likes to come home from school.
Anyway that's what we have,
tried to start a fish tank
How does,
I keep
In the salt water?
losing all my fish.
Salt water or,
just regular water.
they just raised our taxes up here about a year ago.
they've, statewide raises,
they raise ours it seems constantly.
We just, passed a new one,
fortunately or unfortunately it doesn't go into effect because we did not get the United Airlines.
Indianapolis got that, didn't they?
we had passed provisional one that if they did locate here we would raise our taxes.
at least we thought we'd get something back from that.
how do you feel about taxes?
it seems like a big politics game
up here, last year, the governor was up for re election
he said the budget was fine,
the state didn't have any money
right after he won the election he said we owed a lot of money
they raised all our taxes.
now it's election time again
they're trying to lower them.
they're just talk about lowering them
they never do,
they just keep raising them.
I've never seen taxes really go down.
me neither.
actually they're going to here because they didn't have a budget for so long
they raised the tax rate real high for the last three months of this year
they're going to lower it for next year.
I guess they figure they're going to make up for all they didn't get when they should have had a budget.
I hope they put that in writing .
they say they're going to lower,
I'll see.
I feel like the middle class people are supporting the nation and, that the rich are not paying their share
of course the poor can't afford it either,
I really feel like
I feel like,
I'm a middle class person income wise anyway
I get tired of supporting the whole country.
so do I.
I'm middle class barely,
I don't think the rich are paying not enough,
I think they're paying too much.
You think the rich are paying too much?
if you're in percent bracket and they take a third of your check every month, that's ridiculous.
Why bother working?
I don't know many rich that don't have enough tax breaks to,
I'm talking about the really rich.
they should just tax everybody the same amount no matter what you make.
That would be fair.
I'll go along with that.
no loopholes or anything.
Everybody pays ten percent or fifteen or whatever.
I think that would be fair.
ifs, ands and buts,
no big elaborate laws that for a lot of enforcement or a lot of review.
It's just, you make this, you pay ten percent.
If you make a hundred dollars, you pay ten percent,
if you make a million dollars, you pay ten percent.
that's the way our state tax is here.
I think it's pretty fair.
Our state taxes are somewhat based on the federal.
they have not gotten it where the withholding is accurate.
Oh .
you withhold no matter what you do,
they withhold what they're supposed to and at the end of the year it's not enough.
you ought to be saving up some every month to make up for all what they should be taking out.
now, when you sign your W Four form or whatever, W Two
whatever that is, then they always say, do you want a extra amount for state.
Which is ridiculous,
it's been that way for the last probably ten years.
I guess you have to check yes
you come down to the end of the year
you don't have it to give it to them.
unless you have a lot of deductions.
if you have a lot of federal deduction, it ends up hurting you state wise.
you end up owing,
you may get nine hundred dollars back from federal
you're going to owe fifteen hundred in state.
Ouch .
just ridiculous.
don't know.
they just came up with a twenty five percent increase on personal property Oklahoma county and that is a chunk.
I'll say .
I mean twenty five percent increase.
Y ,
I guess, I've always been kind of interested space and stuff.
read a lot of the,
the, astronomy books and,
and stuff like that.
Have you been following progress of the (( )) space (( health code )) ?
to a degree.
I haven't kept up as, much as I would like,
I've just been so busy,
I barely get a chance to read a newspaper now and then,
I think it's pretty exciting that they can,
it would be interesting to see if they can find, other planets more habitable to, humans
I think I would be very interested in space travel in the future if it is at all possible.
I wouldn't even mind, being a pilot on one,
right now
I'm probably getting a little too old for that.
I know if they make the advances that they have been making, that, maybe or even physical, abilities may not be, a barrier anymore.
just made leaps and jumps.
I think a lot of technology we have quite a bit due to lot of the space travel, equipment and stuff that,
I agree.
as a matter of fact we're the ones that I have been to Houston to visit the, space center out there,
one of the big advances that we use every day now is Velcro
that (( vacuum )) , little space program was one of the big, backers of that.
It's amazing,
it's hard to imagine what life was like without it now.
I don't know if you ever watch (( Gallagher )) ,
he's one of the comedians
I've him before.
talks a lot Velcro.
what would we do without it? .
were talking about that just the other day.
What did we do without it back then?
I guess there was a lot of buttons and a lot of zippers and snaps.
little things that have come (( up )) .
I know maybe some of the big things that,
concentrated foods for one maybe
I don ,
That's right.
That's right.
I don't know
it's also just often pictured, in my mind,
That's true.
I guess our minds are so, finite
when we try and picture the universe as an infinite object,
it's hard see,
I always thought what do you do hit a brick wall, eventually.
It's hard to consider that something could go on indefinitely.
that is something that would be hard to think about.
I agree.
You know like you say we're used to finite things
something that is infinite and just incomprehensible.
I would like to see them, do more in that area to make space travel more, something that the ordinary person can,
in people's nature to be the first to do something.
(( huh. ))
love to be the first one to step on a planet or some like,
me too.
I wouldn't even mind being not so much being first but just, get out there just explore.
I think, it's in everyone's nature to some degree to want to get out and explore something they haven't,
or experience something, indifferent.
I think that's what made us, progress to the state we are is our curiosity.
Of course.
That's true.
There must be some way of doing this.
A better place to be or whatever,
are always looking for something better.
that's true.
I know at work, people always complain to me
are always whining
it's, I'm always looking for something better.
Yeah .
There's a better way of doing it than what we are doing it.
That's right.
That's right.
if you are just content with being, with the way things are then, then you must a pretty dull life.
Because if yo ,
they are always finding easier ways
just because they don't talk about it or something like that.
they are doing it
I guess, you don't really think about it too much.
I guess you are always finding newer ways and better ways of doing stuff
yo ,
a subconscious, thing.
somewhere they can sit down and write down what, things that you've improved upon,
you probably wouldn't have a pretty good list.
you just don't think about them.
that's true.
I think,
we've gotten different programs at work, make it visible to management that we are doing things better,
how many, credit cards do you have?
I think I'm down to one.
my gosh,
I wish I was that way.
Is that why you said I had more experience than you?
I was pulling your leg.
do you use your credit card?
do you just keep it in reserve,
the way I'd like to try and use it is, you make your purchases prime buying time
you pay that off and don't use it until, it's paid off.
my ideal way .
do you use it? .
Emergencies come along,
I use it.
that's understandable,
my car, had a major problem,
seven hundred dollars,
things just come up
you just never get to use it the way you'd really like to.
actually I do have quite a few more credit cards than you have .
I use them,
my American Express I use for, gas, things like that,
I pay that off monthly,
some other credit cards, like store credit cards, I do have them up there a little bit,
I try not to use them too often.
living in this area, I live fifteen miles west of Washington, D C
it's a very expensive area .
sometimes you have no other choice if you need to buy something.
know I was up in there and a lot of credit cards,
I was just starting to get to where it was getting me in trouble
we just disposed of them, paid them off, and
got out of it.
I just.
that was good that you had the opportunity to do that.
(( )) .
are you married, that you both, you and your wife use a credit card,
now we pretty much just pay cash for
as much as we can there.
only credit card is Sears,
I have that for automotive purposes.
well that's great.
everyone I know here uses, credit cards like they're going out of business
to be honest with you.
just too easy, basically, just get yourself in trouble with those.
the only other one I have,
I have a Diner's Club work
I see.
that I use, because I travel some.
I use that,
I don't really have to worry about that, because I only use it for business,
I automatically have the money to pay it off.
I wouldn't mind, getting back into one if they would,
you start out at a low limit,
they just keep wanting you to increase your limit
if I can get one that'll keep my limit at five hundred
I can never go over that or something
eventually get's up there to whatever
fifty thousand
forget it,
I don't want that.
the temptation's too great.
I don't know,
writing checks is just as easy I guess.
that's true,
that's true,
I guess, we've kind of exhausted this, topic .
can you.
you can't say too much about it really.
Other than, you use them or you don't use them.
You like them
you don't like them.
I guess, they don't care if we end it early.
hopefully, you have a good Thanksgiving.
That's coming up,
you, too.
maybe we'll talk again.
may be,
you're the furthest person, actually, that I've talked.
I've talked to a lot of people in Texas.
Texas is the big one.
Okay, then.
bye now.
bye bye.
how do you feel about capital punishment?
not really certain how I, I'm not certain it does a lot of good. that it effectively, avoiding a lot of the crimes that have capital punishment
you don't think,
Yet, on the other hand, I don't know,
there is things that
seems like it's the right thing to do.
serial killer or somebody goes in and machine guns, children in a school yard,
you kind of,
I don't know.
What about yourself?
have the same dilemma, I think.
seems right sometimes
other times, you don't know.
it's been,
the Arab societies and stuff end up, having effective punishments
they're extremely severe.
think to a certain degree, the reason that doesn't serve as a deterrent, may be because never know if it's going to be Right,
like Arab societies. If you caught stealing, they chop off your hand
you walk around the rest of your life with one hand
everybody knows exactly for.
here, with our court system ways of sort of screwing it around and stuff kind of always count on the fact,
there is a good chance you're going to get off.
also, it doesn't seem like it does that many harm,
sure, their life is taken,
they'd spend the rest of their life in jail anyway,
I think sometimes they'd prefer just to get it over with
it's more of the easy way out than
some people,
making them pay for the con , for the
what they've done.
Except that, average cost of having somebody in jail for all their life extremely high. per year,
it's something like twenty thousand dollars per inmate per year.
To keep people in jail.
it's crass perspective
on the usage of capital punishment,
on the other hand, know if that is that serious that they're really never going to be out of jail, ...
then again, also, you can't bring back lives that have been taken anyway,
huh .
it doesn't,
it seems
I don't know,
doesn't ever really, ...
I know,
you can't,
it doesn't,
one more life doesn't get things back the way they were, right.
It doesn't bring back every,
don't, I really don't know,
What state are you in?
I'm in Texas.
In Dallas?
I'm in Austin.
are you calling from?
right now I'm in Utah,
I'm from Plano, Texas.
I see,
what are the laws like in Texas?
is s ,
I guess there is more and more states going back to capital punishment.
Texas has had it for a while.
It's one of the quickest,
once reallowed,
I think it was outlawed for a while, by the supreme court, or, the interpretation of the constitution
it seems like everybody stopped
once they sort of reallowed it, Texas was one of the first actually, implement it again.
They do it by lethal injection.
I'm originally from Kansas
in Kansas also, almost immediately put back capital punishment
there they do it by hanging.
Still, they have,
I still remember the movie, IN COLD BLOOD.
I don't know if you've ever,
I'm sure you're familiar with it,
have you seen the movie?
I haven't,
That way.
they do it that way?
show it,
movie was made in, like, nineteen sixty two or something like that
not particularly graphic,
on the other hand fairly impressive to watch them, walk into the room with gallows.
It's kind of a barn like structure.
I think they're there,
I think that capital punishment also.
I'm not really familiar.
Is that right?
Are you there in school?
I am.
I think they d ,
a long time ago, I think, that, they do it by, like, a bunch of men have guns
one of them has the real gun in it.
they don't know who killed,
Has a real bullets
the rest of them have blanks?
certainly wouldn't want to be the executioner,
I know that .
I've always said that had to kill and clean and do meat, I think I'd become a vegetarian.
. I know.
As long as you're sort of safely removed from it, it not bad, I guess.
All right.
Go ahead.
what kind of car would I want to buy.
I don't know.
The question is, would I want to buy,
probably actually buy.
May be two different things.
had money in the world or something.
If I had all the money I wanted, then that's whole different matter.
in that case, I don't know.
my dream car for years Porsche
Turbo (( )) .
I don't know if I'd want one of those now.
Of course I would want one if somebody was
was given to me.
I maybe would buy a B M W.
even a Volvo.
What do you have now?
I've got Dodge Daytona.
It's actually the first car we ever bought new.
I have
my car is the first one we ever bought new, too.
we just bought another used car, a couple weeks ago, actually.
me too .
what car do you drive?
What is it?
mine is a Honda Accord.
we almost bought one of those.
Do you like it?
I do,
it's funny because, after I bought it, I was doing a lot of business traveling,
some of the cars that I got were like the Toyota Camry and the Nissan Maxima and some of the competitors
I don't like them as well except, it wasn't really a fair comparison because those were automatics,
mine is a standard
the reason I got a standard was because I thought it handled a lot better
it had a lot more pickup and everything.
you get a little more control over when
when it's doing the things it's doing.
rental agent did you go to to actually rent
to rent those kind of cars.
usually AVIS.
To what, AVIS?
I guess,
It's just because we're on,
I think of it,
I'm not sure those are AVIS or not,
we have corporate contracts
I see.
with the various companies
it depends on your destination, too.
Kind of strange .
You work for a big company, then.
Work for T I.
T I, I see.
which is how I heard about this .
I don't know,
I would probably, if I were to buy a car with the constraints of real money
I probably go with something a Honda Accord.
Maybe it would,
one thing really liked the Dodge Daytona is the fact that they have, this seven year warranty.
it really saved us some big money once.
It did,
they had a whole bunch of things sort of broke at the same time
my gosh.
the bill would have been over fifteen hundred dollars,
I had to pay twenty five for the,
that was great.
it was.
That's unusual to hear,
usually, something breaks,
you look at the warranty
it's excluded.
bought extension
I see,
at the time we bought it it was like, four hundred and twenty five dollars or something extra.
you got your money's worth.
we did,
we really debated at the beginning,
of course I'm glad I did it.
that is good.
years left on it.
I've been lucky.
Mine hasn't had any trouble except last week a shopping cart crashed into it
I was real lucky because it just hit the,
the lens to the light.
It didn't actually dent the car or anything.
it cost me twenty five bucks to replace
that was good.
Are you.
the store will pay for it anyway,
No big deal.
going to, buy a new car would you buy Accord?
I probably wouldn't, just because I already have one
if I had to make the choice again, I'm perfectly happy with what I decided
although we did just buy another car,
that's a Legend
those are nice (( )) .
a used one
my husband has really wanted one for a long time,
the fact that, that I have has performed so well,
before that I also had an Accord,
it was a real old one
I bought that used.
I had absolutely no money to my name and bought that,
it served me real well, too.
he's been impressed with all the Honda cars.
my sister drives one.
She drives a, is it Legend
it's a,
I'm not certain,
she's liked it.
have, I have never had,
in fact, what I'm driving right now,
one car for a long time,
yet most of our usage of the car was just this little shuttle back and forth,
four miles to work and back
kind of thing.
I bought a used Yugo
just to be a car that I could care less about
(( )) .
How did it go for you?
Hasn't left you stranded.
that's exactly what it is,
cheap little
I know.
little car just to go, run around town in
It's actually kind of fun to drive.
getting back in the Daytona now, I almost don't like it.
it's mushy,
it's an automatic,
that's what my husband thinks about my car now, that he's had the Legend
it's too,
the steering
it's windy.
you feel like you're in a boat or something,
it's kind of,
I can't drive that,
the Legend, it's just so huge.
don't like it,
it's so,
what kind of home repair work have you done?
done a little, repair on the, shingles on the roof recently.
We've had a lot of wind around here.
Been pulling them up, or just loosening them until the rain came in?
It looks like I'm going to have to get up there again, because we may have a leak.
Are you in the section of Texas that's been getting so much rain?
We've been getting quite a bit, maybe not quite as bad as some of the folks down around San Antonio,
I'm right,
Plano's just north of Dallas
there are parts of downtown or near downtown Dallas that are under water right now, I guess,
I saw on the news.
you're probably, about halfway across the state from San Antonio, though, aren't you?
and, about, eighty to a hundred miles south of the Oklahoma line, I guess.
you're still getting a good bit of the rain, though.
we did have a little bit of rain yesterday.
So far we haven't had any today.
I suppose that means I should be, getting up there to look at that, shingle,
I had something else planned today,
I guess I'll let it go awhile.
Is it asphalt shingles,
(( )) .
they're, wood shake.
that should be a lot of fun.
Yeah .
Did you put them up originally or just going up and stopping leaks in them?
as a matter of fact, we've never had a leak actually yet.
Now this,
we just bought the house last year,
just before we took possession of it we had a fellow go up there and do whatever needed to be done on the shingles.
I've just recently had to start looking at it myself.
it's a small problem so far,
I guess you just have to keep on top of it.
What kind of roof do you have?
we're in, campus apartment buildings with flat top,
then you don't have to do too much with it .
Not too much.
They're just tar and gravel
treated flat top roofs.
Have you got pretty well pitch on that roof, or is it pretty steep?
it's pretty steep.
parts of it are steeper than others.
What do you use to keep from sliding off that rascal?
you wear, shoes with good traction, and try to remember where you are at all times .
remember to yell Geronimo,
if all else fails.
that would be just too much of a fall for me.
have you been,
the house reasonably new,
you been doing some remodeling work on it.
It's actually just twelve years old, now.
That's pretty new house yet.
this part of the country,
they say that when the house is, fifteen, it's already old,
just take good care of it.
Thing is,
had with this house recently has been some, squirming, I call it, of the foundation.
We're just on a concrete slab,
the soil right under this is a clay,
It's settling unevenly?
moisture content, it either swells up or shrinks,
of course the soil right under the slab retains it's moisture a lot longer
during the dry season you have to water the foundation to keep your foundation drooping
anytime there's a change in the weather, like the temperature, drastic changes in temperature or in, moisture, you get little spider web cracks all around, windows and doors.
that sounds like a lot of fun.
usually what you do is just wait until you think it's stopped,
you patch them up .
What is it stucco walls or,
I think, with,
Wood framing?
somehow or other that does manage to, show these little cracks.
I don't know quite how that works.
Maybe it isn't drywall.
I don't really know.
(( )) they plastered over drywall.
I think it is.
I remember my parents home is drywalled almost like a small grade stucco type plastering over the drywall
I expect that's what it is,
to give it a textured sort of a look,
made for kind of a hard shell drywall.
I think that's the way this is done.
Fortunately we haven't had any real big holes in it yet
that's good.
be exasperating to have slab floor like that swelling and giving like that.
the previous owner had a major problem with it, because, probably a variety of things.
His neighbor used,
(( )) return anything.
the only things that I have returned have not been faulty,
it's been because of the size or
some problem like that.
I really haven't had to return things because they didn't perform the way they were supposed to.
Most the time they have a pretty good guarantee,
The only thing I've had lately is, my kids got all these Barbie kind of toys for, Christmas
takes them less than a day
they're broken in one way or another.
I don't know if that's just kids, or if that's,
maybe those type of products be for older kids .
What age are your children?
I have a five and a half and a three and a half year old that play with them .
huh .
I don't think they're unduly rough,
maybe they are.
I don't know.
a lot of the little Barbie sets they come with real little pieces
they're easily lost and easily broken
(( )) .
my daughter is twenty one now,
it's been a while since we've had Barbie things .
It's been a while since they've, gone through the Barbie stuff (( )) .
and things,
seems to me became a craze when she was already, third, fourth, fifth grade.
she wasn't in it for very long before she was out of it,
I don't remember her breaking a lot of stuff.
Don't remember her breaking,
I don't.
I also don't remember lots of little pieces
They've got so many different things with it now.
that's one thing they've got.
They've got every type of imaginable,
camping on the beach, and all of these come with, tiny, tiny little plates and little sunglasses.
my three and a half year old has wanted this Ken doll,
I finally got her a Ken doll,
less than a week later the arm was broken.
they were real good about replacing it.
That's one nice thing, is they're real good about replacing it.
I guess if they'll replace them, then they assume they shouldn't have broken.
those little arms are supposed to twist almost any way
Any direction.
she's not that strong, that I would
she's not that big of a girl that I think could really
take a grip on it like a bigger kid could,
The main thing that when my daughter was playing with Barbies was just clothes.
that was about it.
That was about it.
the Barbie doll itself is usually pretty durable and that kind of stuff
the main thing my kids seem to be into nowadays are electronics.
children are twenty one and twenty five and twenty eight.
is that right?
do you see that there's a big problem with electronic things?
not really.
We, haven't had that much, problem with things that we have bought.
They seem last.
In fact, when they offer us extended warranties, don't buy them because we've,
Don't buy them because you don't need them.
We don , we find we don't need them.
it seems like it's just added tack on.
a lot of the credit cards now, will guarantee,
if you purchase on your credit card
yeah. (( )) .
then they put an extended warranty on it if it doesn't work or if you have a problem with it in a certain period of time,
it seems
like it's a waste of money.
you almost assume if you're going to have problems with it, it's usually that warranty would expire
the first one.
an extended warranty for cleaning and stuff like that,
I never used it.
You never it.
it seems ridiculous.
washers and dryers and things like that, I've never had one go out.
In fact, they usually,
when they do go out, it's either something my husband can buy the part and fix
we don't even have a repairman come,
it means it's old enough that it's time to replace the whole thing.
It's time to replace it.
I think these extended warranties are gimmicks, really.
I do too.
A lot of it.
one on our T V
that there's,
it was ridiculous.
they charge you a pretty good price for them too.
They're a pretty healthy price,
you're trying to think maybe I'll need this.
think gosh, if I say no, then I won't,
my husband
I don't know.
finally just put his foot down
he said we're not going to buy any of these anymore,
if it goes out,
You probably
got your worth out of it anyway.
we really have been fairly happy things,
we take good care of things
we don't, run out and buy a lot things either.
since our kids aren't little anymore, I'm not buying a lot of those little things that can get broken.
the little,
you probably are real careful of the brands you buy
when you do buy things, you probably watch what (( )) .
you look at the consumer guide.
you go around
you look at the different ones and find the ones that have the,
what do you think about child care .
feelings on it is, I wouldn't take a child to day care . You know?
wind up,
just a baby sitter in a home.
Probably find someone,
how come you wouldn't take them to a day care?
Just because of the,
too many kids I think too many infections and things coming in.
they seem to pass a lot of,
sicknesses and ,
I don't know,
then all the things you hear about them.
you kind of wonder whether or not,
I'm sure there's some good ones,
I just,
I don't think that I would,
I took, Cammy to a ,
it was a preschool day care type of thing.
liked it some ways
some ways I didn't .
I think the ratio of kids to teacher is really important.
How was it?
I think two teachers
I think there were twenty kids,
I only had her going two days
most of the other kids were going more days
that was probably my own fault
that she didn't,
She went,
one thing I noticed is, just, they were trying to write her name,
I didn't notice it until this summer when I was working with her that she would bend her wrist all the way, not in a natural
she did?
I was kind of that they had never noticed that and, either pointed it out to me tried to say, look, you're holding your,
she was holding her pencil in the right fingers and stuff.
Wrapping her arm all the way around.
I hadn't worked with her on writing at all at that point.
She was four, or three,
last year
then this summer I got the thing from the school that says things to work with the kids on
I w ,
like I said, I didn't notice it till then.
Because I hadn't worked with writing letters or anything and
stuff like that.
they'd never picked it out, though?
They never,
just never said anything.
Course, like I said, I took her two days a week
maybe that was,
my main reason for taking her was, just social skills
more than anything else.
I felt she needed the s ,
just, I didn't feel like she was mature enough socially
one thing that's kind of different, too, though, a preschool taking infant
to at a day care where they're
taken care of.
I think it would be hard to take them to people you don't know.
Preschool's a different thing,
I think it's hard to take kids to somebody you don't know unless you have awfully good references.
Reliable, people,
I don't know,
it's so hard to take young kids anywhere for very long.
I think it's hard to leave them,
it is.
It is.
The older ones it's not,
you don't even really have any real worries, because you know that they'll play with whoever's there
they usually adapt pretty well.
is, I think, just hard to leave them because nobody will give them the kind of care their own families will.
you know schedules
you know if they're upset and that type of a deal.
I don't know how, people, that have young kids working work full time do it, really, without being stressed out all the time.
I think it's,
I don't know,
on the other hand I think it's harder to stay home in some regards.
It's hard to always keep yourself feeling like you're doing something productive,
at the end of the day your house still feels like it's a mess,
you haven't got anything done
what am I going to fix for supper .
it is .
it's kind of hard to always feel , gosh,
is this important what I'm doing
the work never ends.
That's for sure.
It doesn't.
preschools and day cares full time,
they would, probably just feel different,
it would be hard to do that full time.
I feel such a responsibility, even when we go out for a few hours that,
are they driving the baby sitter crazy
is everything okay.
Donna, you said you have three children.
What, kinds of activities do you spend with them?
Is it (( )) ?
we have an eleven year old, an eight year old, and a three year old
my husband, he coaches basketball with Brian,
he spends time doing that with him, planning and, practicing outside.
he's a real sports kind of person,
he plays tennis the kids.
We all kind of play tennis as a family,
the baby
plays in the playground.
We take turns with her.
let's see,
we have a computer
we do a lot of things with the kids on the computer.
let's what else we do.
we watch a little T V together.
We really don't watch, I think, as much T V as a lot of people.
We don't have H B O.
We do get the Disney channel for the kids.
my kids have a Nintendo which they play,
my husband sometimes joins them with that.
my little girl, Jennifer, likes to do crafty things,
I'll take some time and do that with her.
of course, we always read a bedtime story at night,
even older kids sometimes sit down will join in and listen to a story.
basically the story person because my husband doesn't have,
he gets home from work late or whatever
he'll read the story to little one,
that's basically my job .
do you find it difficult to find time,
is it pretty (( natural )) ?
because, at the end of your day you want time for yourself
that's kind of cutting into time.
with the kids getting older, now on the weekends they get to the bed like at ten
which really is late,
on school nights, the two older ones get to bed about nine.
They go upstairs at nine,
now, this weekend we'll have a baby sitter come
my husband and I will go out to dinner and come home probably not too late.
(( huh )) .
Maybe Brian will still be up, and spend some time with him.
really hard.
You have to be a very unselfish person spend a lot of time with your kids, I think.
Do you work during the day?
I don't work.
had a little part time job in a private, high school, tutoring, high school students with learning disabilities.
That was two days a week,
even just those two days just seemed like it was a lot.
I don't know how,
I admire,
people can do it all,
with three kids and laundry and keeping the house the way
I want it kept, it is hard.
I can imagine.
Even just finding the time to do the grocery shopping and everything.
huh .
that's another thing,
I'll take one of the kids with me grocery shopping, usually on the weekend,
that's kind of a special time for just myself and my little girl or myself and my son,
they'll be my helper,
they'll get to pick out some of those favorite snacks that they get to pick out
I try to do things like that,
of course, they have a pretty, busy social calendar too .
You fit it in with all
what do you feel are the current trends in the way families spend time in general, in America?
think their kids in front of the T V and H B O and rent movies
kind of leave them to their own means.
I think, it's easy to fall into that trap,
I'm not, totally innocent of that because,
there's times when you just stay here, watch a tape.
I think different parts of the country,
I think in Plano and maybe this area in Texas, there's a lot of community activities that parents could join in with their kids.
People are,
huh .
real sports conscious and really get involved with their kids, sports activities and,
that's good.
families are facing a challenge,
I know that with,
I'm a newlywed
thinking about having children sometime in the next couple of years
very hard, because when you get used to two salaries, it's very hard cut back to one.
if you have the type of job,
I have a friend that's a nurse
she can pick her hours
that's great career.
I wish I would have gone into, nursing .
she has such a flexible schedule,
it's very hard to, spend time with the children your husband and
do everything at once.
I do feel like it's important that you make the time for children (( because )) ,
I think responsibility.
You just don't,
have children so that you can continue the lifestyle you had when you were single.
When you have children, you have to say, now, this is different
you do have to give things up.
personally feel that it is extremely important to be with your own child, for the,
huh .
at least for the first two years of their lives. if you,
can possibly swing it
Do you have kids?
I got three.
How about yourself?
we have two and another one on the way.
you have got, young children then.
we do,
we have, a six year old.
He is oldest
our baby will be a year on Monday.
my goodness.
That is great.
What kind of mix do you have?
A boy and a girl?
Two boys.
Two boys.
Two boys .
Do you know what is on the way yet?
Are you
I am just about three months,
I don't think we really even want to find out.
I do not blame you .
We like surprises.
. We will take either.
we have got two boys and a girl also.
we have got two boys and a girl .
does it,
are the two boys first?
you will get lucky and get a girl this time.
kind of like our boys though too,
our boys, in graduate school at A and M,
he is in the Navy.
He is a lieutenant in the Navy
the Navy is sending him for his Masters in Ocean Engineering
my goodness.
we have got another boy that is, out in Maryland.
He is a wildlife biologist,
our girl is thirteen.
She is in the seventh grade.
we have got, still, all sorts of good activities since,
You kind of got, a span there,
what do you do with your seventh grader?
she is into a little bit of everything.
She riding horses
she goes out riding as much as she can.
Do you have horses?
No .
knows people that does,
maybe that riding place that is North of town that she goes to.
She rides English, and does jumping, takes lesson and all that kind of stuff.
does she?
She must really like them.
she is into,
she plays the flute in the band, and, the piccolo,
she is into this, odyssey of the mind thing, which a lot of time, for,
what they call peace group.
I don't know if you have gotten into that with your kids,
that is where the, kind of,
it is a program for
Advanced kids.
I have heard about it.
Our little boy is in the first grade
taught school for six years.
I do know about that program
my wife is involved
she kind of heads that up for these kids,
last year got, the state level.
They did not win that,
they, got one local and, one region,
they got a new mix of kids this time.
it keeps them busy.
It keeps them busy.
I bet.
does she go actually out into a different classroom other kids that are involved in this?
you probably know a peace group are advanced type. That they are special, classes for peace classes.
I think that,
this happens to be,
history is what their peace class is this year.
enjoys that kind of stuff
how neat.
and, does well with it.
Always something to do .
as far as our activities, we are kind of on a different level here.
you will get to different levels.
I guarantee it.
My husband is going to take our six year old to the monster truck show tonight.
They like to,
That will be fun.
both boy things .
do not have any real,
we don't really ski.
We have not taken our kids skiing or anything.
Of course, the baby is young,
Got to wait a couple years.
Sledding, that is what you have got to do.
The what?
You have got to go tobogganing and sledding with them.
have done that.
just goes right out here.
We have got quite a bit of snow,
last week we got a lot.
you are welcome to keep that .
Yeah .
You would like that, huh?
I grew up in Wisconsin,
I had plenty of snow,
when I was a kid,
we have lived here about seventeen years,
we use to take all of the kids tobogganing and ice skating, and all of that kind of stuff
it is fun really.
It is fun.
As long as you do not have to drive in it.
I do not like that.
really, it makes me nervous.
Yeah .
I had plenty of snow to last me forever.
don't care if I ever see any,
I don't care if I ever see it,
keep it off of here .
yeah .
I don't mind it,
the winter gets long.
I get ready, that,
come about this time of year I am kind of ready for it to start getting spring,
it is too early yet.
you have got,
You have got five months before you will see that .
We have had a few early springs though in the last few years.
They have not been too bad.
Come about March, it gets, a lot nicer.
Out oldest son. When,
You probably, more up on this subject than I am,
the roles that
women have played in the last
they've entered the work force more, since World War Two is when they started.
You bet.
I think that that is, very significant that the percentage of the work force today consists of such a high percent of women.
You bet.
where I've noticed it more, I think, is,
I'm a traveling salesperson
I have traveled most of my life
I know just especially in the last, ten years and really since,
in the last half of dozen years I see more and more women traveling.
as far as boarding planes and driving cars and calling on customers.
I sell sporting goods
even in our industry, there was virtually, really and truly no women as far as selling the type of things I sell
even in the last five or six years, boy we see more and more women being involved
credit to them as far as how they're doing things.
leaving their children in the care of their husbands while they do travel, too.
You bet.
go to a, I have a club that I belong to (( on Tuesday )) that,
one of the girls travels quite extensively
she says, my children have two parents.
why not .
You bet.
That's sort of neat.
a, I think that's a change
I think that's a change you're going to be seeing more of future, people having that kind of attitude that the father's going to take more active role in child rearing.
I think, it's the age old thing,
every once in a while you read in the newspaper or you'll see it on T V or something where the discussion comes out that, women are paid less than men
doing the same, or carrying the same job responsibility
a very true statement
be that way.
I think in the near future also.
a ,
It's been changing,
it's been evolving,
there's still an inequality in the
work forces or jobs.
you hear some people say,
he's a man,
he needs that salary.
Right .
they forget.
Also, I think, a good argument for that is in the area of politics,
if a,
a woman Congressman I'm sure makes as much as a man Congressman and the same as a senator or whatever.
deserve it all the way.
I guess just the most significant thing changed for me, again, as I mentioned, was just in traveling,
you see, more and more ladies of all ages with briefcases in their business suits and
And going,
and going.
I expect you're right in regards to having two parents now.
That's statement.
I think if,
in the future it's even going to be, more noticeable and more significant.
think it will be.
thing I read, too, the other day,
this is not just for working women
how much they're out there, I guess is
the car designers, are starting to design cars with women in mind. because in the past the male bought the cars,
now they're showing that fifty five percent of women are actually making the new car purchases.
And that they are looking for, different things in the car.
The man is looking
the woman is looking to how easy can she slide in under the steering wheel.
You bet.
can her makeup come off the upholstery .
Good point.
if they're out there buying that many cars, then there's that many out that are self sufficient and, mobile and working.
Right now I'm self employed
my wife's always worked.
She's a schoolteacher,
she started working
when I first started my business,
she was selling real estate at the time
hers was the only income we had for three or four months
she certainly did her part in help getting me establishing in my business
she still works everyday
we all do.
You bet.
I just happen to be off today.
I work, too.
it .
What kind of work do you do?
I'm a nurse.
I work at Medical Treatment Center, which is at and Arapaho.
Right .
trying to think what else I can say in regards to this subject.
I don't know,
I'm kind of things.
You see the old, cigarette ads, about you've come a long way.
You've come a long way baby?
You think about this a subject like that
it's really true.
Women have come a long way
do you have a P C?
I have a Macintosh S E thirty.
a lot of my friends are into Macintoshes.
I have myself.
A two eighty six.
I'm probably eventually going to get a three eighty six.
What do you use yours for mostly?
mostly, word processing applications and, just as a dumb terminal.
think eventually I'll start using it for spreadsheets and things like that.
what do you find that you use yours mostly for?
I do a lot of word processing and spreadsheets and data base,
about the only thing
just starting to get into, a little bit more communications now.
I've just today ordered a fax modem
I'll be able to
send and receive faxes right over there without using,
you don't have to make a hard copy that way.
are you using windows?
think planning on moving up, getting a three eighty six before I move up to windows
although, I do like graphical user environment.
it's getting to be more and more like a Macintosh .
to be able (( )) I just want it more for multi tasking, which I suppose is also like a Macintosh.
the one thing I used to use a,
I've never used an I B M actually.
I used to use Apple two E, which of course is
looks pretty primitive now.
that's what I learned a lot of languages on, was an Apple two E in my high school.
I don't have real programming capabilities on my, Mac right now.
I don't have, any compilers
do you use your computer for, just things around the house, or in the (( )) .
I use it in my business.
what do you do?
I, do, consultation testing of various kinds for, English as a second language programs.
they based a, on a, other language,
English as a second language classes will have people from all sorts of, parts of the world,
the teacher just teach English, through natural understanding.
I'm working with exactly.
You seem to be, better informed than the average person on that.
it was just, when I was high school, I worked for the community school,
they had a English second language class
it always seemed strange to me that, people that, spoke English not too well, and spoke, a variety of different languages were all being taught at the same time.
I imagine it's a lot harder on a computer because as many cues,
you have hand gestures and things like that.
now, we,
what I use a computer for is to write materials that
are later printed, though.
Most of the stuff that I do is not, interactive
I use it for data analysis on testing,
to see how well they retain the vocabulary and things like that.
item analysis, statistical analysis of the tests,
when you write a test you have to look at some data from it and see how the different questions are performing
and find out which ones are discriminating well and which ones aren't
find out how reliable the test is,
you try correlate it with other tests and things of that sort.
it's, involves a lot of spreadsheet use.
I would imagine so.
what were you doing when you were using an Apple two E?
I was doing some of the same stuff, but doing it more slowly ,
and with smaller files.
I can't believe, I've got, five, megabytes on this one now
(( )) .
on my two E I had a hundred twenty eight K .
it's amazing, in the general user community the expectations have just grown so much.
I remember my first computer was a T R S eighty with four K on it
we, then I started playing with Apples,
those had forty eight,
if they were really great
the old
they had sixty four K.
the old Apple, original Apple had, forty eight I guess, didn't it.
I know,
I know that in my school they had a bunch that had sixteen K on them, is all,
My goodness.
one game that I played that required forty eight K
there was only one computer that had forty eight K on it at the time.
huh .
it's just so amazing that generally,
I'm not sure about Macintoshes,
I know I B M s, generally, you buy a megabyte at a time.
your low , that's the low end.
the S P thirty goes up to eight
I haven't upgraded it quite that far yet.
I think probably when I get system seven I may have to do that get hard disk.
I don't know.
They say that system seven uses a lot of memory.
I imagine (( )) .
Okay, Bill,
Okay, Bill,
have you done much camping?
I'm a scoutmaster in Boy Scouts.
during the summer we camp, two or three weeks a year .
sounds good.
I'd say I camp quite a bit.
you do.
do you have a lot mountains,
you don't have mountains in Texas, do you.
Where do you find places to camp?
do a lot of canoeing when we go camping
also, carry all our equipment with us
we canoe down the river and then,
sleep on the river on one of the, sand bars and then
get up the next morning, cook our breakfast, and go down the river again.
my word.
that sounds adventuresome .
How about yourself?
I've done, I would say quite a bit of camping, mostly with my husband and I.
we have five children,
we have found that camping with the little ones isn't as enjoyable as just when we go ourselves.
we've tried to get out once a year and go on a anniversary camp out,
we have gone up into the mountains and, not necessarily roughed it,
we have just found it just real enjoyable to be alone up in the mountains.
that's good.
old enough now,
they're twelve and eleven,
they're involved in the scouting
they do a lot of camping with the scouts
last time our one twelve year old went to the scout camp for a week,
this year they'll both be going,
that's been real enjoyable for them.
kind of camping do they like best?
Do they like it where they have tents
do they cook on stoves?
actually taken du , the heavy cast iron dutch ovens and done their cooking there over the fire,
I don't think they've taken the stoves.
last year they camped in tents,
this year I believe they will be in tents also.
Course I imagine it gets cold in parts of Utah.
It doesn't get very cold in Texas,
lots of times we don't even take tents.
is that right?
We just use trail tarps.
what does that consist of?
it's just a piece of material a lot of places where you can tie off to it
and make it into a tent
like a,
they're very light weight
we use them when we go backpacking.
we go backpacking fifteen or twenty miles, then,
they're not very heavy,
you carry them with you,
they'll keep you dry or whatever.
we go camping here,
we have to take our big huge, heavy sleeping bags, and lots of tents
I like to sleep on the air matresses.
I'm not,
my bones are getting so old,
sleep on the matresses.
have you had any wild animals or anything like that?
in fact, last month we went camping,
we saw a lot of deer
in the morning and the afternoon
My word.
just deer everywhere.
wasn't hunting season,
we were with Boy Scouts,
of course we don't, want to go hunting.
we got to see a lot of deer
out and about
of course, we see smaller animals all the time,
one thing that is a big concern in the evening, at night, is, make sure that all the food's put away and so forth
because, we have, armadillos.
Do you know what
armadillo is?
they're covered with a heavy armor
type stuff,
And possums, and, raccoons.
My word.
we have those creatures down here that go hunting for a midnight snack.
huh .
that can be a problem if you don't put all your equipment away.
they won't necessarily attack a human or bite you or anything.
They will if you attack them.
most time they run away from you
see you're up,
they don't have any problem walking right by you if you're asleep.
my word .
that sounds a little less fierce than bears.
want to,
(( )) music do you like?
lots of different kinds I guess.
I like country music, of course
I listen to Christian music a lot because there's a Christian music station here in in our city.
I listen to it quite a bit.
I am more into rock and roll myself.
I listen cause on Friday nights they call Saturday Night Alive
they have Christian rock and roll.
they have that type of music,
they just have different words
I listen to that too.
Do you like any bluegrass?
Not really,
I like
at least your,
I like rap music.
Do you like rap music?
Not really .
Not really .
I can tell together here .
we'll have to,
What kind of
I have a lot of friends that like country music .
What kind of rock music do you listen to?
Do you listen to that really heavy metal stuff
I'm more into, older rock, like the psychedelic era, like,
Seventies and like that stuff.
Greatful Dead, Crosby, Stills and Nash.
I have friends that like that.
What ?
Yeah .
you have never heard of the Christian music that I listen to probably.
I've heard a little bit of it.
I've just,
have you heard Carmen?
Have you ever heard of Kim?
I've heard of Striper.
the only one I can
they're the really heavy,
the heavy metal stuff
I guess.
the first of Amy Grant before
more mainstream, top forty.
Cause plays both secular and Christian
I like her too.
I have been to a concert a couple of times of hers.
I've never actually seen her in concert.
I imagine that she puts on a pretty good show.
She does.
I like her.
huh .
I like some country music.
It's just that I like finding a lot of it's,
I don't like the country music that's like my wife left me, my dog
Yeah .
left me, everybody's left me.
Mama got run over by the train.
I don't like that.
I like Randy Travis
I like more of the real new ones,
Like Garth Brooks.
Garth Brooks,
he's fine.
Reba MacIntyre.
I like them.
I don't care for the older, the dog left me stuff.
You don't like Patsy Cline?
You don't like Patsy Cline.
I don't even really know who she is, .
have you ever been to any of them concerts that you like?
That music that you like to.
actually I just went to see the Greatful Dead a week ago.
aren't they done with?
I thought that they .
still on tour.
They have been touring,
since the late sixties .
I just thought that they done broke up and
They're still together.
They're still
making albums.
I didn't know that.
That's interesting.
In fact, there are people that basically just follow them around, from city to city
on tour selling tie dye and things like that.
they are on up there in age, aren't they?
like late forties, early fifties,
whenever one of them dies off they get a replacement .
(( )) .
they seem to have a really bad time with keyboard players.
They keep on dying
they keep on replacing them
the new ones in this thirties
they look pretty rough.
I've seen picture of them
they just,
they don't actually look as rough as the Rolling Stones.
They just,
I don't know if you saw the tour posters of the Rolling Stones when they last toured,
it looked like leather day at the geriatric,
(( )) .
they just,
All their faces were just all shriveled,
Yuck looking,
it just just looked like they,
got a bunch of retirees and put them in leather jackets and blue jeans.
are you into rock music, all that druggy stuff and all that
(( )) .
You know what I am saying
they come on the stage
they don't even know they are there.
They are just so out of it.
Actually, I prefer performers to be pretty sober, so if they're jamming, that they don't just lose themselves and go into lala land.
I don't know .
have you seen any concerts lately?
do you think our politicians are honest at this point in time?
Generally, I don't think they are.
personal opinion is that, the politicians are out for their own good because entrenched.
They don't ever have to go out and get a real job.
They just
stay in their current job,
you know what I mean?
I agree, both of those things,
do you see any way of like altering it so that they would become more honest?
I think by putting term limitations on slow down some of the problems.
it has to be not just at the national level but at state and the local level, too.
I know some senators,
I don't know which ones,
they've been in office since nineteen forties
never had a job.
they've never gone out in the real world paid normal taxes.
I know they pay taxes,
they don't
get paid a hundred and twenty five grand a year.
Which is more than twice my salary by quite a bit
I'm going, like, don't understand how they're supposed to be my servants and yet they're paid more than I am
they work than I do.
I see with term limitations, is that I think that the bureaucracy in our government as is most governments is just so complex that is a learning curve and that, you can't just send someone off to Washington and expect, his first day to be an effective, Congress person.
lot they need to learn, when you get there.
that's true,
however, I think that's always been true.
that's true of the Presidency, too,
we seem to be able to get along with the President turnover ever eight years or four years.
there is a lot to learn,
maybe it will keep them on their toes and a little bit more active in trying to catch up.
I think two years is too short.
I think it (( would )) have to be extended,
a term limitation for Congress would be like three terms or even four terms
you would increase the length term of a Congressman.
maybe standardizing four year term for Congress
Senate and Presidency and then, staggering them so that you don't,
we aren't tackling a massive ballot every four years.
thing that, bothers me about our system is just that, for, in, in, in Congress the amount of power particular Congress critter has is based on their seniority and how long they've been there
it's, for,
unless you have actual, across the board idea of,
just going to, against the incumbent every time doesn't work,
it's going to wind up hurting your state if all the other states aren't doing it at the same time.
that that's true,
the same abuse of power on the flip side of that coin.
the C I A is moving out to West Virginia which is a really stupid location for a large agency like that and for almost any agency.
the action isn't in West Virginia.
I hate to tell from West Virginia this information,
huh .
it really doesn't
the world does not revolve around West Virginia
as far as this country is concerned,
the world does revolve around D C,
huh .
as far as the politics in this country are concerned, the national politics
the C I A is very large, very high profile agency and to have it located out in West Virginia,
it might only be two hour drive from here, but that's a two hour drive
I think it's a mistake to move large agencies like that
is it the F B I.
I don't remember,
I think there's,
l ,
t ,
I don't see why it makes a big difference the C I A because, officially any operations within the United States other than administrative.
that's officially.
we all know that that's not necessarily true.
think that advantages to having seniority or, not having a complete turnover every, some small number of years.
I think an institutional memory that you need to maintain.
I think that, the perks that we've given them,
I heard on the radio back few weeks ago, during the incidents where paying restaurant bills
huh .
they're bouncing checks all over the place
one of the radio stations over here listed off every single one of the perks.
(( )) .
we have,
we used to, when I was younger
we'd go every weekend.
(( All right )) .
we haven't done whole lot of it lately.
I'm kind of into it.
I'm, kind of a sailor.
I'm up in Minneapolis now,
I was in Florida ,
I was kind of into it for a while there.
Were you sailboating?
for the most part.
I had a little sail,
we don't get to do a whole lot of that up here .
No .
Just motorboat's all we,
What part of Texas you from?
whereabouts is that?
That's between Houston and Dallas.
all right.
It's the oldest town in Texas.
Is that right?
that's pretty wild.
We have, Lake Sam Rayburn out here and Lake Nacogdoches,
we do a lot of boating on.
you got some lakes around you can do that on.
You do skiing and stuff
little bit.
All right.
Just got through snow skiing .
All right.
Just came back from Denver
that sounds good.
the snow up here is really kind of starting to melt now.
it was heavy when we were there though.
I didn't see any boats there, though.
not too many, no.
I just got back from a weekend.
We went and, had a, kind of a picnic in the woods type thing.
It was pretty nice,
have, I had a boat last summer that I took out, a catamaran that I a lot of sailing on and stuff.
That's a lot of fun,
my parents are pretty big sailors, too,
they're kind of into it.
have up here mostly bass boats.
I guess big thing,
fishing going on up here.
All right.
where about in Texas is that?
Is that centrally located
you ever heard of Lufkin?
major city is nearby?
that's south or north of there or something?
Let me see,
Houston's north.
Dallas is south.
all right.
that sounds pretty good.
I guess the weather,
does that stay pretty constant there
gets cold at night, and then warm in the afternoons.
Probably in the afternoon.
that's pretty temperate.
that's not too bad.
have you done, any other boating then
I hadn't done any
that's all,
I used to a friend that a boat shop.
every day just about.
that's great.
we had a different boat every day.
that's fantastic.
I used to, kind of be that way myself when I lived in, north western Florida in the panhandle,
I used to sail about every day.
I'd like to do some sailing.
it's a lot of fun.
especially if you get pretty fast boat
those catamarans are pretty fast.
You can actually,
have somebody teach you that
they just,
actually, known how to sail pretty much my whole life.
my family's pretty into it
I took sailing lessons when I was about six
Is it pretty easy?
kind of a thing where you get the hang of it after a while, just kind of get a feel for the wind and how it works the physics behind it.
not too bad,
it's pretty easy to get the hang of, I think
generally, everybody known has kind of gotten into it,
some people are more motorboaters,
which is fine.
that's about all we have .
lot of people see the excitement in sailing,
then, again, they may never have tried anything like, catamaran
that's when you really start getting into speed.
pull people behind, the skiers,
they get so fast,
I didn't know that.
they get pretty quick,
that would be something.
personally done that,
the races,
work with a guy right now that, races catamarans in the summertime
he's pretty gassed about it.
He's got a good,
do you all use?
from Detroit
he usually goes on one of the Great Lakes, I think, and does his sailing.
for me, go back to Orlando, in about a month, and so, down there, basically just go to the coast.
We're about thirty miles from Coco Beach and the east coast,
there's a lot of places there you can go,
that's a good thing.
what do you do for a job?
I build transformers.
is that for T I
it's for Cooper Industries.
Are they primarily electronic, then?
they have a, worldwide,
do here is make transformers
electronics and stuff like that.
how do you like it down there in Texas?
It's real nice.
Been here all my life.
no doubt.
I've never been to Texas.
I've been to Oklahoma,
that's about as far as,
like it.
that's good, because I didn't like Oklahoma that well .
what kind of luck you been having with buying and returning products?
not too bad really.
I had a razor that I got from Christmas that didn't want it,
I got it anyway
it was a Braun
they were real good about taking it back.
It wasn't a problem at all,
I was able to get that back pretty easily.
I don't know,
I really haven't returned a whole lot lately.
Have you?
I haven't had to.
It's, the,
every so often,
I'm almost pushing it myself.
Maybe I'll buy a shirt from G I Joe's
it shrinks too much
I should have known better,
I bought it from G I Joe's
it was probably made in China by slaves.
Right .
most of the time (( )) I get pretty good stuff.
I think that, aside from the fact (( all )) markets being internationalized
if you want to buy American , it takes real extra work to find.
It's probably
I was reading,
a Japanese or a Burmese company owning and hiring people in the U S .
I was reading something in, CONSUMER REPORTS tonight about that as a matter of fact.
They were talking about cars,
And about how, you'd like to buy an American car maybe
the transmission may be made in Japan or whatever.
I've got an eighty six Ford Ranger
I know for a fact that the transmission is made by Mitsubishi.
it's like, what are you going to do,
that's the way it is.
I don't know,
personally feel that, if the Japanese cars are better and Americans buy them, that's the way it goes
people, more than manufacturers should get a clue
they should start making quality products.
I think they're beginning to.
days of don't buy a car made on a Monday or a Friday are pretty much going away
That's what I thought, too, until I saw the CONSUMER REPORTS issue.
they've got cars rated,
essentially, see much of a trend.
just like every other time that you look at it, the Honda Accords and the Civics are right up there.
There's nothing wrong with them. and the same thing with most of the other Japanese cars.
again you look at a Ford or especially a Chevy
they're pieces of junk.
I know.
Still at it, hey.
through ninety one.
I don't know,
they're getting better,
maybe they're starting to get a clue.
they got a three year lead time.
It probably won't start really showing up until ninety four or so .
that's just it.
Technology that comes in right now probably not going to be until, quite a few years down the road.
The computer industry's where it's really dynamic especially for the consumer.
because technology is so, volatile and changing all the time.
can you
think of any other industry where in software they,
if the product is upgraded and a better version is put out, you'll get a free version in the mail s , (( )) .
maybe I say, you paid five hundred bucks for this program, so send us twenty and we'll give you a really great upgrade.
keep up with it pretty quickly
a real good thing, I guess.
I don't know.
are a commodity
the MacIntosh is about the only one that's going right
forcing I B M and the rest of the D O S world to follow along.
they're kind of the leaders right now,
I used to see all those commercials for Windows,
you're like,
gee, they're reselling a MacIntosh under a different name.
why don't they just say, almost a Mac for half the price.
They'd sell more if they were honest.
almost is the key word, there, too, because really, I've used both
I really don't see an advantage of Windows at all.
Yeah, it
it's only an advantage for people who had to use pure D O S.
that's true, too.
(( )) base.
I don't know,
gotten a little bit out of personal computer business just because I don't have one at home.
do use a Mac at work
I really do much with it at home
Apple's sort of making a s ,
(( they're ones were ))
growling consumer, need to worry about the Mac they're getting,
if you bought a power book straight off, a lot of them had to go back.
They issued a recall because of improper shielding or possibly other problems with
floppy drive.
you sound like you must, work in the computer business.
I have one,
I do desktop publishing at work
I have a machine at home
I belong to the user's group
been a Mac fanatic since they came out.
All right.
technically, I'm not actually in the industry.
I don't work a computer company.
I'm an abuser.
all right.
it's sort of like surfing on the wave of future shock to
that's true.
keep up with the changes as they happen.
Something that I find uncomfortable is, want to buy something, say you want to buy a personal computer
you got to think about what kind of memory you want to get and what kind of technology that you want to go for,
take the example, the modem for,
what baud rate do you get?
it used to be that you get a twelve hundred ba ,
how do you feel about the crime in your city?
Is it,
Minneapolis isn't too bad.
I know that there's been some increases in crime lately in terms of murders.
that's kind of gone up in scale some other things.
I personally had (( a little )) experience the other day.
somebody broke my passenger window and stole a uniform out of my truck.
when you look Minneapolis as compared to where I used to live, it's really quite a bit better.
because I came from Florida
in Orlando, getting to be a bigger problem than ever,
What part of California are you from?
San Jose, California.
I have a good friend there.
Here, the real problems are the gangs.
Yeah (( )) .
just in general the whole,
we've only been here a couple of years.
before that we lived in Colorado
in comparison to Colorado, it's real noticeable.
go to the grocery store at night.
that's ,
You know.
that kind of thing
That's really a shame when it has to constrain your activities like,
We have a neighborhood watch program in that we live in, which I think is a great way to reduce, home theft, burglary, and things
of that sort.
Do you have that where you live
interestingly enough, right before I moved up here,
I'm an intern
I go
back down in May.
in Orlando, before I moved up, we had a real problem with it.
we've been broken into in my apartment about four times
in (( like )) two and a half weeks.
one of the things that helped organize was a neighborhood watch type situation
down there.
they were just,
it's one of those things where the new thing is that they operate in the daylight because
everybody went to work,
the houses were left unguarded,
I think given that people are pretty conscientious about it,
that's a good way work it, with a neighborhood
also I've heard that, the newest thing is a lot of people are specializing in robbing people during the time they're home.
is that right?
Like on the weekends.
A high percentage of, free time,
I think it's like fifty percent of most people's free time is, spent doing yard work
they wait while you're
They know the house is unlocked
they just slip in.
That's amazing.
Slip in, slip out,
They know exactly what they're going for.
I've heard that's really on the rise as far as
a new type of crime.
it almost seems like they're getting quite a bit smarter.
Yeah .
Unfortunately, yes.
unfortunately it's starting to really, look at people's habits and
where they are at particular points of the day.
one of the guys I work with really laughs when he looks at Minneapolis because he's from Detroit
crime level there, of course, is more pronounced,
I guess,
I think we've got a neighborhood watch program here in Minneapolis,
I'm not real sure.
it helps to know your neighbors,
They give you,
you're supposed to make lists of, cars.
I know a lot of my neighbors right around my development. If I see a car that's unfamiliar, have a list
is that what did in your program? Where you have a list of license plates?
Pretty much.
basically, involved in that, in the organization of it.
I left right in the middle of it.
I'm not sure
where we went from there,
whole thing of being alert and kind of noticing your surroundings, noticing people who look suspicious
activities like that, sure.
hate to be paranoid
there are really only so many things you can do.
You can have the house alarm,
neighborhood watch program, as a woman not go out at night
you can do that which is what I choose to do.
One of the frustrating things about that is that you really are limited
if you know that the threat is there
it's against the law to set traps,
it's against the law to do a lot of things,
They could basically,
when I was getting robbed down in Florida, I was really considering electrifying doors
things like that like
they did in Miami that time.
it's not,
if you kill someone in your home, as long as they are in your home, it's considered self defense though.
That's not always true.
It isn't?
case about two years ago
where a guy knew he was going to get robbed
essentially what he had done is set elec , a electrocution trap
for the burglar in his own home.
The guy came in while he was home
sure enough, he fell into the trap and was severely burned.
He didn't die,
he was severely burned
he took the guy to court and won a settlement.
makes you think,
It's like your hands are much tied.
I think you had a handgun though, in other words it wasn't premeditated, you had a handgun, it's the middle of the night, someone's down ,
I've had, three boys through, I guess, some child care, each one of them
now they're in school
it's all over
I guess I would say it's not easy to find most parents would want.
I can profit by this because I'm due with my first in about three months.
Is that right .
I guess, the only rule, I can think of is that I like to look for places with, good respectable, nonprofit behind them like a university or a hospital or something like that.
If they're associated with a college or a university, they're usually a pretty good bet.
I think it's sort of the opposite of what you would want when you buy a car or refrigerator something.
You'd like to get it from some good cutthroat capitalist company but not with child care.
I guess not,
usu ,
I suppose you're absolutely right there.
For profit
places, I would really look at them awfully carefully
young, I was teaching at a university
the child care center associated with our university was quite good
I felt confident that they'd do right.
(( Of,
guinea pigs? or some such thing?
you mean, learning type, ?
actual experiments they would have to get your permission.
I suppose, is a psychology department or an education department around, that they're pushing one form of education or another,
I guess that's true.
I never had bad experience in that respect .
Of course, you also tend to get people that are associated with the university and the hospital as the parents,
pretty good people .
the thing I really worry about is, the sexual abuse cases you read about.
you'd just feel awful if something like that happened.
I never really worry very much about it.
I tend to think those are very rare but quickly exploited and made public
never really worried too much about that the case with my boys.
think those things get into the headlines immediately when somebody finds out about them
I don't think it's as common as, the newspapers would make you believe .
another thing is cost.
yeah .
I mean that,
I know so many of my friends I went to school with who are having babies right now
it's just not worth it to work because it's all going out in daycare.
in our case, we made the decision that my wife would stay home until the boys were, in school.
I'm really happy we did it, although it was very, very difficult.
I think it was the right thing to do
that we would do it
we went ahead
not everybody can make that choice
though my wife wasn't working, we did have, one or another of the boys in, child care of the day. or a couple of days a week just so that, other things could get done around the house and so on,
we did look around.
I think my wife is much better than I am at that walking into a place and getting a feeling for whether it is a loving and caring place or not
(( )) .
I would always trust her judgment on that.
I'm just thanking heaven.
My husband just got a new job.
His last company, he was only working four days a week.
he just got a new job.
He's getting lots of overtime,
he got a pay raise
I'm just grateful that we don't have to worry so much about my working or not.
There's absolutely no question that you're going to be the best child care provider for that kid
do it as long you can .
I suppose.
I think, you have to look through a place
you have to get a feel for, how they treat the kids and, what kind of staff members they have and
how much turnover they have and things like that before you
commit your child to them.
to determine that they're perfectly open. That you're welcome anytime without notice, in the middle of the day and so forth
if they're at all queasy about that then
You have to start wondering if they don't want you.
I'd look elsewhere,
Right .
You have other friends that have kids, being taken care of in, child care?
I have one
I haven't really had a chance to talk to her about that for a while.
I really think the news reports to sensationalize the problems.
I think the problems are more ones of cost and resources and, pay and exhaustion and ,
things like that, rather than these, really wild abuse cases that you read about because it make good copy.
This is true.
CURRENT AFFAIR can ,
get several shows (( )) child cases.
Why don't you go ahead and start.
I think the court systems could stand some improvement.
trial by jury is good
is circumstantial evidence convicts a person, which I don't think is all the time good. Because sometimes it's hard to get all the facts and to if you don't really know or you don't really have an eyewitness.
how can you convict somebody on circumstantial evidence is beyond me.
I don't know.
you think trials were held by judges or experts, that would tend people on circumstantial evidence?
I think so.
attended a trial in, Germany when I was a student
that's the sort of system they have.
The trials are held by a panel of or four judges who are,
they're lawyers I guess.
They're experts in the law
really isn't a jury
they do the questioning also.
The judges do the questioning
i ,
I think it's a lot harder to get off on technicalities also because is also sort of a jury,
I'm not sure I like that .
I think I prefer the jury system myself.
You think you prefer the jury?
You think your chances are better?
I think in most criminal cases it wouldn't make any difference whether it was a couple of judges or jury .
I worry about is cases where it's the government against the individual.
That's where you really need a jury of peers.
that's true.
Because, anytime government, is the government against the individual need the protection of ordinary citizens.
I think that's really the only thing. I guess where I would like to see the system change is, there ought to be (( ))
I guess I don't think that, juries need to decide sentencing all the time.
I think maybe judge is a better judge of that
the sentencing fair.
even if, the jury, I guess they do decide that
I'm like you,
in a case like that, most of the time its,
I don't know,
maybe I'm conservative when it comes to that.
sentencing is really light compared to what I think they should be in a lot of cases
if you drag twelve people into a courtroom, I trust them to make the right decision as to whether someone's guilty or innocent.
That's usually a matter of who to believe and what facts to believe.
people who have day in and day out life long experience with what prison is really like and what the options are, to ask them to decide for one case, on one person, based on what they see, I think that is maybe, a little bit naive.
In Texas here, people tend to get whipped up into a frenzy and slap long sentences on people.
huh .
it's kind of, a hanging jury atmosphere .
in a lot of places, I think people bend over the other way,
I like the system that they have in some places where the defendant it.
cases in some jurisdictions, they can do that.
I kind of like that system.
not a bad system.
do think it needs to be shaken up a little bit.
the thing is too, maybe they need expert types
be on some of these jury cases because most time you just pick, Joe Blow or whoever and a good citizen or whoever
call them in.
lawyers blow sand in their eyes.
(( )) exactly.
I would like to see most civil cases tried before a panel of experts instead of ordinary juries.
Insurance cases and things like that.
Where ,
there would be more honest settlements instead of this, tugging of people's heart strings and,
making them cry and feel like they're doing somebody good by giving them
on a act or whatever. *
giving them two million dollars to make up for the pain and suffering .
huh .
Exactly ,
criminal trials you need the jury as a defense against the government
Have you had that experience recently?
I think a year ago, I bought a product from some company down Atlanta, Georgia.
I believe it was mixers. juice machines
blade they sent me at first that went into the machine, it looked, perfectly okay
I found that, it was made of some material which actually ended up rusting
even, despite, diligent washing, got rusty after about, three weeks of use.
I don't think it was my fault because I had made a point of drying it off and cleaning it
I had to send it back after the third week because I realized not,
something was very, very wrong with the blade.
what about you?
I don't have so much trouble with products as service.
I don't feel like that's as big a problem.
I've had a few answering machines over the last two years just because I've had a lot of trouble with them working correctly.
I'm not convinced that any of them work a hundred percent.
the one I have now is okay, most of the time.
that's it.
probably the worst.
My daughter has a charm bracelet I bought her that's guaranteed. James Avery.
I don't know if you have that up there
a very good company. That
sells sterling silver things
she has a charm bracelet with lots of charms on it, a lot of money into it by now
the catch broke
she was sitting in school on a carpet
when she stood up, it caught and broke
we took it back
they said this was just obviously yanked.
This was yanked.
they were so rude about it.
we wanted a different kind of catch
she said it's not guaranteed.
I said, put it on because apparently nothing's guaranteed
do it anyway.
we got the kind we wanted
I was really disappointed with that.
I felt that this was a company that should have been more reliable
I happened to need a birthday present for one of her friends
I called there to see if they had it
the lady was very nice.
I said my goodness,
I said you've been very nice, what's your name.
she told me
I said I really appreciate it.
I said there seems to be a big attitude problem in that,
. *
it turned out she was the assistant manager
at least your talking to somebody who counts . *
I felt kind of good about that,
I didn't
even know the person's name that had given me the hard time or anything
I just felt like, at least I did something.
Maybe they'll fix it.
They might work on that,
I find attitudes are more of a problem.
Service is more of a problem.
I find,
up here in the northeast, have these mail order companies like L L Bean
they are famous for, I guess, having really top notch service.
They've got,
I, I have friends and family who order from them because buy something from them one year, wear it for a year and a half,
even after, like eighteen months of, reasonably satisfactory use, they will accept it in any condition
they will gladly, no questions asked, take it back if for some bizarre reason you decide you don't want it anymore.
actually do things like this.
they bend over backwards service wise for you.
That's really great.
I've found also a lot of companies nowadays, eight hundred numbers you can call.
I guess you call hundred number, if, can call up hundred number directory assistance, you can get, the eight hundred number of the customer service support line for a number of companies.
I've tried that with a few companies lately.
been pretty good,
one reason why, buy a lot of clothing through mail order is that, if you buy through Bean or though,
I guess big competitors is Land's End out in, I guess it's Wisconsin somewhere.
they're very good about
insur ,
the customer is always right
no matter how crabby you might be over the phone, they are very understanding
make things are, they ma make sure things are set properly if you're any way dissatisfied with their merchandise.
That's really good.
It use to be like that.
. *
I don't think most places are like that anymore.
Yeah. *
nowadays economy the way it is, I guess,
story on the news tonight about how, because a lot of companies are,
things are getting rough out there,
there's a lot of,
the morale among employees tends to go down and that, in turn,
question was talking about the juries
one of the things I thought about was a lot of the drunk cases that they were having,
maybe there should be stiffer penalties for those people who come back again and again.
a judge, I think, would be the most appropriate person be able to sentence somebody since they do it over and over again every day.
kind of agree with that,
. *
because I think in some cases, the jury may not even have,
. *
the information about other crimes the person has committed.
Right. *
think that in some cases that's considered to prejudice the current case
Right .
a judge, you're right, should have the whole dossier of the criminal
if they're judged guilty would probably be in a better to give an appropriate, sentencing.
I agree with you.
one thing I heard was this, where mock court.
it's supposed to be all legal and everything.
you go
you present your case,
the other side presents their case
you're done with it.
It's almost like the NIGHT COURT we see on T V.
it's not that we have, such,
it didn't backlog all of cases that are, all ready pending.
that was one thing I thought about that would be really neat if we could do it that way.
In other words, not,
there would be some types of crimes for which you're not guaranteed a jury trial?
I don't,
a point on which we don't agree.
I would tend, myself, to say that we should continue to guarantee a jury trial for criminal cases of the parties wants one.
guess, that wants to have the jury hear the case.
I'm not out for streamlining things to the point where we,
. *
take that,
that would require a change in the Bill of Rights, I believe
yes *
mean that .
didn't mean that, no.
gee whiz, if I didn't have that right, not to have a jury that,
yes, I would feel, you're right, that my civil rights had been violated.
I meant for some, when both parties agreed that yes, we're going to have a judge here.
We're not going to have a jury,
let's get it over with.
Sort of like car accidents,
I think that's all ready possible.
I think,
. *
that you can waive the right to a,
. *
jury trial
Right, *
right .
I agree that that should be encouraged.
People should know that that's an option just in case they feel they have to have a jury trial.
I think most lawyers do a pretty good job of making that evident clients unless they feel they can, tweak a jury into
Giving a different sentence.
giving a different sentence or possibly, if it's a civil case, giving higher, awards of money or something
since usually the lawyers get a percentage of award.
The take.
I suspect it, in cases like,
I guess we were supposed to be doing criminals though, rather than civil.
Is that right?
i , we're at liberty talk meander as long as it's all on the same theme.
in the case of,
. *
civil, things, I think maybe use of the jury is very,
. *
often to the lawyer's advantage
I think that may be where jury use is overdone,
. *
there are cases where they could be settled,
. *
Right. *
out of court a little more efficiently.
the lawyers are really,
it's to their advantage to play to as big an audience ,
. *
as possible
huh. *
I was wondering too, if they were thinking the judge making awards in civil cases
not just sentencing a criminal cases.
I'm not so sure I'm in favor of that.
I am in favor of it for criminal cases
there's a difference of my view there for those two.
you can tell I haven't been in too many chambers or anything like that .
Have you ever had to serve jury duty?
N ,
I was called once when I was nineteen
I was doing so many other things that they took pity on me
I was doing school and things like
let me out.
I've never had to it since
that was almost twenty years ago .
It isn't,
sort of amazed me they first caught up with me for the first time,
. *
that would have been about, twenty years too
huh. *
just last year
the case I heard was a criminal case
it seemed it really,
It involved two bicycles.
We didn't do the sentencing.
The judge did.
How interesting.
rendered a verdict
the judge was the one to do the sentencing.
huh .
that was here in Wisconsin.
don't know if that varies from state to state or if it,
I'm Nevin from Sunnyvale, California.
this is Jim Bliss from Minneapolis, Minnesota.
How you doing?
Pretty good.
I guess the topic is trial by jury and
how we should change that or how we would change it.
I'm ready whenever you are.
Okay .
thoughts on the subject there?
I definitely think, decisions have to be unanimous.
I think that's probably a good thing.
It's probably the safest thing.
it's to easy to get a quorum
Yep .
simple majority won't do.
even two thirds majority, it's ,
quorums are to easy to get.
there's always chance that one or two people could be playing devil's advocate for a good reason,
. *
Yeah . *
I don't know.
believe they suggested that judges should be doing the sentencing.
(( )) Gives them a little too much power .
Yeah .
Tha ,
know of a couple of people at least who would be arguing with that. Or arguing against that pretty vehemently.
you may be, doing, guilty verdict
for technical reasons .
About the only good thing I would say about that is hurry the process up a bit
even now plenty of cases out there where people have been wrongly convicted and things like that
I know (( )) .
that's what the trial by jury.
jeez the judge was doing it himself, without any checks and balances
whose to say.
there would be much more of that .
no doubt.
Are you involved in the legal system at all?
(( I )) .
I tend to follow it know what's going on.
I've got some friends that are lawyers
I do too
One of them just got his law degree.
to tell you the truth, I'm not real familiar with, the system of the way it is right now.
I really haven't studied it in depth.
I know a little more about civil cases criminal cases.
Which is,
it's more in how you present it versus, who's right.
I'm sure of it.
a lot of those things, it's largely a matter of viewpoint.
And who can argue their case better.
. *
it's kind of weird.
I don't know,
always think about watching the PEOPLE'S COURT or something.
. *
And how weird those cases get.
I know. *
It's just,
When I was, a couple of years ago, involved in some pretrial stuff and *
you okay, we can't bring up this point because then they're going to,
the opposition will say this, this and this and ,
it's like, boy, the stuff that they can twist around
Yep .
it's pretty amazing.
it's like truth isn't really important anymore.
it's not.
then you get people bring in cases just because they want to bring them up just because.
friend of mine's pretty obnoxious
he really gets into suing people.
. *
sue just about anybody just for the chance to get into court,
. *
and argue his case
That sounds like a little abuse of our system *
It is. It's, it's wasting people's time and the taxpayers' money and everything else. *
it's for the more general,
people don't want to take responsibility.
most of the time they're looking to place blame.
Yep .
and stuff.
you're from California,
is that right?
originally from Chicago
I was just thinking
the civil system or the court system must differ between there and where I am in Minneapolis. (( ))
I really,
From what I understand, it's all pretty the same except when you get to Louisiana.
Louisiana is completely different cause it was based on the,
what is it,
it's based on common law
the rest of the country is not or something like that.
Pretty strange.
fortunately I never have had to go in
I haven't either other than,
for jury duty.
that friend of mine's telling me that I might have to go in a witness.
He may subpoena me.
. *
we'll see what happens.
Yeah. *
I'm not really sure how we could change the legal system to make it better. (( )) .
there are too many big problems,
such a backlog of court cases right now.
I know.
to try to get them all a good time
we already have too many lawyers as it is.
if it's criminal cases can't put them in jail because there's no room left.
that's true.
in fact, they're even letting some go.
I'm originally from Florida
it's like
it seems like every year they let out more and more just cause they don't have room for them,
good solution either.
Not at all.
I'm not real sure what the,
What do you think about capital punishment?
I'm kind of in favor of it for certain crimes.
Which crimes do you feel that?
I think first degree murder, probably warrants it.
Because of,
so many times it's so brutal and just recurrent
(( selling, I think )) should also.
Recurrent crimes like serial rapists or serial murderers or
Yeah .
the death penalty.
I come from Florida.
they're pretty liberal on it.
They tend to, fry people left and right.
go ahead.
Go ahead.
Texas is too.
Texas, I saw on T V the other night, forty six in like the past several years.
they're pretty hip on it too, I guess.
They do it by lethal injection, at Huntsville.
I think Florida still uses electric chair.
Yeah .
In some ways I don't like it because it's like they're playing God.
that's not,
I don't think that's right.
on the other hand, there's a lot of advantages to it.
I think crime rates deterred a little bit by using it
of course, you have some savings in terms of taxpayer money keeping people in jail or not.
with Florida that's a big problem because there's so many people in jail that they have to let them out every year.
That's what's happening here.
There is,
in fact, a big gubernatorial issue is the
the turnover rates of, offenders being let out and doing it again.
a big problem
there's not a whole lot you can do about it because there's only so many jails you can build
it gets to be problem.
go ahead.
I wish if they were going to do it, they would be a little more consistent in dealing with who gets lethal injection and who doesn't.
Be a little more,
not being able to put it off for fifteen years.
a lot of these guys, they get in
get off for good behavior
I don't know,
up in Minnesota where I am now, they don't have the death penalty.
you can almost sense that people are just laughing at the system, Because they figure sure get thirty or forty years for maybe rape or something.
then for,
(( elicit )) good behavior I'm out in maybe five or ten.
just because, like we said before, they don't have enough room in the jails
there's a lot of incentive for them to be let out early.
if you've got the death penalty hanging over your head,
I don't know,
I think that may solve a lot of that.
Yeah .
Maybe not solve it,
I don't know,
maybe (( )) ,
tend to think the repeal system for the death penalty is a too lenient.
kind of takes away from the significance of the death penalty.
What do you do Georgeanne?
I'm a graduate student at the University of Texas in Dallas.
What program you in?
What do you do?
I'm a doctoral student at the University of Central Florida.
I'm doing an internship up at Honeywell.
Oh really?
I don't know.
an interesting issue.
been quite a few
in Florida in the last few years, I think there's been a lot.
I can't give you figures
I just,
this was in conjunction with the guy that was put in the gas chamber in California.
I think it,
the forty sixth in the last twenty five years I think is what
is that right?
they gave a run down that Texas
Texas tends to be a little more robust and disciplined area (( then )) .
kind of,
I've heard things about that.
I've heard that they don't mess around very much.
(( )) . *
don't get repealed as easily as they do.
huh. *
the guy in California got thir , twice before he went to the gas chamber
they said no,
you don't have to go.
they took him back.
it just seems,
that's a lot of repeals.
it just seemed a little inconsistent.
you have two,
you have these people who are serial killers that didn't even get the death sentence back when
I don't know.
trying to think about other crimes that would warrant it.
I guess,
the policy now with treason?
axe you for treason or is it a life sentence?
think, the military doesn't execute anymore
death before the firing squad or whatever.
I think about the only one is, rape,
I'm here.
How do you feel about public schools?
our public schools really poor, I feel.
I'm not sure where Georgia ranks in the nation
we're toward the bottom.
there's a lot of things that I see that are so obviously wrong.
That you would think it would be easy to correct.
the system doesn't allow for the corrections .
How about you?
that's interesting.
I have a sister who used to live in Kennesaw, Georgia.
she has a young boy. Actually has two boys now but only had one when she was there.
she complained quite a bit about their school system there.
Cobb County is better than the county I'm in.
She was in Cobb County.
I can't really say much about the schools up here.
I really don't come from here
I'm only up here temporarily on an internship
I live in Orlando, Florida usually.
the schools down there, from what I know, are not bad.
They're pretty good.
that's great.
rural areas they're not that good.
For example, I have a brother in North Carolina
he says the schools there
I feel that we're way behind.
I have a son that is in the fourth grade
they have just now taken up division.
Yeah .
(( ))
That is slow.
i ,
e ,
my husband and I go to the store
we buy these math books and fractions and multiplication, division things
I feel like, there are several areas that we're just really, really slow in.
I don't blame the teachers as much as I blame the system.
It is,
What do you think's wrong to cause that?
for one thing there's not enough money in the school system.
the money they do have, it wisely.
has twenty seven students.
that's certainly is a lot of students for one person to deal
with on an every day basis.
more than that, I don't think that they have the authority to command the attention of the children.
when you have two kids in that class that constantly keeps in an uproar and you're not at liberty
to do something about it, other than give them on campus isolation or send them to the principal's office. It
one thing I worry about (( )) .
it, it can, it can really be bad.
also I think, we have a lot of, Hispanics
There you go,
we have a lot of,
the county the minorities are mostly Hispanic.
Probably quite a few black people up there
No .
they marched in.
We're in (( Forsyth )) county
is that right?
there's few blacks.
hate to say,
it's not a problem, because I hate to feel like they are a problem, although they are.
you don't want to seem racist or prejudice or whatever,
then again.
it is a problem .
there is no denying
especially in the
have to slow things down for people who don't understand, especially if there's not a very well developed special education program at the school.
you can't put all the children in special education.
That's right,
you can't do that.
if the parents do not care enough to take an interest in whether the homework is done
I grew up in Nebraska
the school that I went to there was fantastic.
really consider myself lucky.
we had a school that had classes probably about the same size you're talking, twenty seven, thirty kids
your teacher had control.
We zipped right along,
I, I
was, I was doing mathematics, fractions and division and multiplication by the third grade, easily.
believe I was too.
you're right,
With all this, don't hurt the kids and don't abuse their rights, you've also taken
huh .
something away from the discipline, I think.
really is a concern of mine because if we could afford it, my son would be in private school.
We just cannot afford it.
I was going to ask you was an option.
I'm of the age that could have gone, although I didn't
I guess, looking back on it, I tend to think it was a mistake.
On the other hand, the more I learn about the history, the more I see it was incremental, decisions. Any one of which was sort of understandable at the time.
on the whole I think it, probably was the wrong thing to do.
How about you?
I was just, in high school I guess ended.
Ended up being,
I was in the lottery.
I was glad it was over by then.
I've never really totally understood what our purpose was over there.
Just because, we didn't really do anything when we went over it seems like.
those people that I know,
I work with several that were over there,
for some of them it was just kind of, not so much a holiday,
I guess that's how they tend to talk about it. But that they just kind of lived out in the woods
ever now and then, they'd go and shoot their rifles
. *
come back
Yeah. *
that they weren't really allowed to do anything.
to me it seems like we only went halfway. If even halfway.
it's funny.
Tonight I was,
. *
helping my kid with an essay on, Stalin.
huh. *
I was thinking in the course of talking to him about it, how, in World War Two, the personalties of Stalin, Hitler and Churchill more or less defined the war
actually when you think back on the big events of the war, almost a personal struggle among these three,
I guess you'd have to call them great men in some sense.
they're certainly all leaders
with their nations solidly behind each one of them.
I got a feeling that some of that was involved in the, early decisions of the Vietnam war. That the, people saw the cold war as, you had to draw a line defend it.
Otherwise you someplace else.
Looking back, it seems like that was only partly true. That, there might have been a better place to draw the line .
say that certain amount of resolve and willingness to fight, brought the cold war to an end.
I don't think you can just fight anywhere in order to, call the bully out and beat him.
I have a feeling that that's part of what was involved in the Vietnamese war.
They felt like this was a place where we could draw a line,
. *
beat them and they wouldn't come forward.
huh. *
we were wrong .
more I hear about it, the more I can see each decision that was made as being understandable.
the accumulative effect was to really get into hopeless situation where,
as you say, going halfway was probably worse than, to a completely and, winning it, whatever that would mean.
I think we did, I think we did learn some lessons that prepared for,
I guess the best word would be the atrocities of war.
Yeah .
the other wars seemed like a valiant war.
they seemed like a valiant thing.
who was good.
You knew who was bad.
traditional battle of, kind of good versus evil,
you're not,
whichever way it is.
the Vietnam war it seems like it was,
the sides and the lines that were drawn are all confused as to whose good and whose bad
It's ambivalent,
it seems like even the people,
had the South Vietnamese, the North Vietnamese and, of course, the Laotians
the Cambodians weren't even supposed to be involved.
about the domestic effects
I was thinking that maybe the most important effect it had was to make it, possible and even popular to, criticize the government.
that pendulum started to swing, even too far. To the point where, supporting a government decision in foreign policy was sort of optional
from the Vietnam war on.
that tradition is still,
it's dying now,
it's still alive as opposed to,
(( this )) Desert Storm stuff may have,
Yeah. .
killed it.
I think that was one of the biggest,
that, the domestic unrest,
Are you in the middle of anything?
I'm not in the middle of anything.
I've just,
about the last thing I did
about maybe, close to a year ago now I guess, helped my dad add on another bedroom on to his house.
I guess that,
The whole thing?
was fairly large undertaking.
it's a bedroom and a walk in closet and a bathroom all on one side of the house.
Did the framing and all?
we did it all except for the sheetrocking.
That was the only thing we didn't, putting the ceiling up and things like that
we weren't sure how to do that
Maybe you and I should get together. Because when I had my last big project, I had the contractor do the framing *
I did all the sheetrocking and the interior work .
that's the exact opposite.
We the roofing and put all the interior walls up.
We just didn't do any of the sheetrock wall work
that's it because you have, get those joints to go together
Ye ,
whatever you have to put in there out between the sheets
and on the ceiling and all that.
know a thing about any of that
My wife wishes I hadn't done that.
. *
very hard to do
. *
we figured just,
I didn't think we could do it and make it look professional.
we to somebody who does it for a living.
I think it takes about three or four times before it gets easy.
Probably so
. *
we'd never done it
Yeah . *
we just left it alone.
I guess, I'm only twenty one
my vast experience of owner's knowledge is not very much.
it's just what I have to do, more or less, around the house, for my parents
Did framed it in f , you framed in new square footage
was it stuff that was already, enclosed?
It was brand new.
Brand new (( )) .
We started with the backyard and turned it into part of the house
it was,
to do the framing?
my dad knew how to do most of it,
we'd gotten a couple of books
he just started doing it.
I don't know.
did all the flooring himself.
He put floor in
I just started with the walls and the roof and started there.
we put necessarily a garage, but just a, off the side of that
after we had the house part made, we just decided we'd carry the roof out a little bit farther and put a carport more or less.
It's just somewhere to drive another car park
you build on slabs down there or did you build it up off the ground?
it's off the ground.
On the piers?
It's on about
twenty two inch piers, something like that.
You had those poured
you did them yourself?
we did those ourselves
You just put forms in the ground and fill them with concrete?
the last thing I did completely myself was an outside deck which I was pretty proud of .
done one,
I helped somebody do one of those before.
you can buy them in kits
we didn't do that way.
I designed it from scratch and did it
did a pretty good job.
Those are nice.
They're pretty forgiving,
You can always tear stuff out and redo it.
It's a,
That's not near,
. *
like building a house or anything
Right . *
those are nice.
Especially when you get done, you've got something,
I don't know,
I like them.
You just sit down on
on the deck and do whatever. Have
a barbecue
I built it two levels and with a big toy box and some benches and, a backrest and all that stuff.
that sounds nice.
. *
All done by yourself,
Yeah. *
I had
a friend with a tractor who dug the pier holes
we could pour concrete and support it with nice firm four by four posts.
the rest of it I just did.
contractor friend helped me, with some of the, foundation work
it was pretty,
it was about four or five hundred square feet.
The same size as the addition that I just put on
size deck.
It's, not that expensive.
I think it cost me three dollars a square foot and, no less than that.
That's not,
me about all together.
that's good.
That's not bad at all.
have to,
wood (( may ))
it got surprising as to the fact that how much wood is,
good lumber it costs,
I don't know about Dallas, even in this little town, not cheap at all.
I was surprised.
I'd be surprised if it wasn't, cheaper where you are.
It's probably more there.
It probably comes from where you are.
Most .
it probably does.
not sure
When I drive through that area, that's all I see is
It's nothing but woods
. *
I haven't,
I used to live in Dallas. In Arlington, actually.
huh. *
that was just when I was a kid
I don't really know what the cost of living is even in Dallas anymore.
a college town
that doesn't help us out any.
East Texas.
(( )) We have,
gas is a a gallon,
that's probably about what you're paying
my current project is a walkway which I'm building around the house and out to the backyard digging it out and laying sand and putting, pavers on top of that
That's a lot easier.
You've got something going all the time.
what you think in terms of, benefits?
personally, I think,
of course I'm sure we're familiar with the exact same benefit package
I think that, we've probably got one of the best around,
besides, they tend to offer vacation, I guess.
the paid time off is wonderful,
one of the things that we were just talking about as a matter of fact this week at work was the CODA Plan that is offered
I think that is just fabulous one,
I don't know if you participate in that or not,
isn't it great?
miracle how fast that adds up,
I have to agree with that.
I was thinking about, importance of benefits and that kind of thing, other than salary
while I was waiting for, the system to find respondent.
I started thinking that over the years that importance has changed
I suspect that that's probably true for everyone.
When I was much younger it was, less important to consider retirement and less important to consider medical benefits.
as I grow older and my family grows, are more important
the retirement is more important.
I had never really thought of it that way
I'm still young enough the vacation's real important to me
the paid time off is real important to me that kind of thing.
celebrated my fifth year at T I the end of last month and, kind of started looking through book because of that,
now that I'm a hundred percent vested, you kind of look through the book and see does that mean and what is the pension all about
in your,
I'm only in my late twenties now,
you tend not to think about retirement.
I guess now is the time to think about it,
Does T I have a pretty good retirement package, do you think?
I think they have, that we need to recognize that we're going to have to supplement ourselves.
that's certainly one of the reasons that I'm sure that they've begun the, CODA Plan.
certainly supplemental way,
I suppose maybe your instance, you're started with T I in your early to mid twenties, and happen to stay with them until you're sixty five, then you'll have a very good retirement plan.
I had another career first and then came to T I a little later.
it's not,
all by itself it won't be adequate for,
It's not going to build up,
for my situation.
quite enough,
I have to find a way to supplement that.
to make it so easy to save.
one of the things that we're doing which is probably the worst investment in the world,
I've got money coming out (( )) to buy savings bonds, just coming straight out of my check.
it's probably not a great investment,
if I wasn't doing that the money wouldn't be being saved anyway,
I kind of have to trade off,
If you never see it you don't spend it,
I though,
believe me, I do that myself.
Do you?
I disagree with you.
I don't think it's the worst investment,
Do you really not?
in the world.
I, I debate about whether it's really good or not,
it's, in terms of guaranteed return on investment
maybe you don't start looking for that word guaranteed,
until later.
it's shown a history that, sure beats anything else.
that's true.
That's very true.
Over many, many years.
We went, and did thing through I B S which is financial consultant type thing here in Dallas
one of the things that we talked about with the counselor there was,
they work up this whole big, for you, the things that you need to work on and you need to do.
one of the things that we talked about with her was, the need to save for our son's education.
We have a two year old,
we can't start saving for college when he's sixteen,
we have to do that now.
they have a way that they can figure, what,
he's two now,
in sixteen years when he's ready to go to college, this is how much it'll cost,
it's just really scary the thought of how much it's going to,
costs now is ridiculous,
what it's going to cost sixteen years from now is just really scary.
they sat down and figured up that we needed to save between fifteen and seventeen hundred dollars a year at a, six percent interest rate, to be able to have, money for his college.
that's exactly what we have coming out in saving bonds, about fifteen hundred dollars a year.
I guess it,
in that way, at least we know that that's taken care of,
can worry about other things
I understand,
that approach.
what, that's exactly what's happening in my family.
Is it really?
that mine are a little bit older
I've shown them the numbers and said this is what's going to be available,
all this is going to do is give you a little spending money while you're there.
You better make sure that you've got a scholarship.
That's right.
. *
That's right.
that's what she said to us.
She said, now, do you all want him to go to state college or a private college?
our answer was, that, we will have enough money available for him to attend a state college.
if he wants to go to a private college, he can get a scholarship to attend,
that was kind of our view on it.
It just costs too much,
you just can't do it,
I don't know,
I don't,
it just amazing,
it amazes me how much costs are going to go up over the next ten or fifteen years.
I just don't know how anybody's going to do it.
I know. *
boy, it gets really scary when you start talking to them.
I have eleven year old daughter now who's saying, gee, Dad, I want to be an allergist,
I said, that's wonderful.
I applaud that.
me explain to you how you get scholarships to do that.
C And,
then her little brother's only two years behind
he says, I don't know,
I think that I probably want to be a veterinarian.
I said, that's great.
Let me explain to you how you get scholarships ,
That's right,
to do that.
That's right .
offers some good stuff
some negatives,
there's going to be some negatives anywhere, no matter where you go.
I have, all,
this is the first really large company I've worked for. I've
always been involved in little small,
I've never had big benefit package.
I really don't know how to compare it to other big companies,
I came on it was great because I had never had anything even close to they offered.
I've been real pleased.
that's fantastic,
on whole would say that they're equal to, most of our competitors.
Think so?
I can see potential changes that probably would not cost very much but might, make things a little easier.
Such as offering smorgasbord. Having a larger variety of benefits
here's the amount, T I is going to pay for it,
you can pick what you want
now it's up to you
it's menu selection, so,
to speak.
That sounds really good.
I read a thing,
I don't even remember if it was in the DALLASITE or the INSITE one, about companies allowing you,
they said that T I was looking into it, to purchase extra vacation days. Which I thought sounded like a good idea.
if you've been there, under five years you get two weeks of vacation
that's really not enough
you want an extra week, then you can purchase an extra week of vacation by saying, okay, I'm going to want an extra five days this year
they'll take a set amount out of each paycheck,
they're deducting it all along,
can have an extra five days off and be paid for them at the time,
you're really not being paid for them,
the money is actually coming out of your own pocket,
it's coming out a little bit at a time instead of all at once,
that is kind of an idea a lot of people sounded like that they were really interested in
T I said that they were looking into something like that
I could certainly, personally stand seeing them go to standardized compensatory time
for overtime.
I don't believe any of us would have to purchase any extra vacation days,
if they did,
I would certainly support something like four to one or five to one
maybe they want to get generous and make it three to one.
a repayment for,
every three to five days that I work overtime there,
they should give me one day.
it should be a standard not left up to either the whim or the current overhead rate running in each department.
a lot of that is left up to whoever your supervisor happens to be and what type of relationship you have with that person
I see a lot of differences, from one group to the next, about who gets it and who doesn't get it,
that way with a lot of things, there.
It seems like, it depends on group you happen to be in, you're going to get and what you're not going to get
that's for sure.
Which is the same,
it's probably that way anywhere,
I'm sure personalities always come into play.
just in this size of organization,
Our community doesn't really have any organized recycling drive.
Where do you live?
I live in San Antonio.
San Antonio!
I live in Garland
we're just beginning to,
just built a real big recycling center,
that recycles everything imaginable
as far as, trash pick up and stuff that a lot of the communities are doing,
they're testing that.
they're really not force into it,
they're trying,
we're attempting it,
I wish we could do more.
been no emphasis on recycling at all in San Antonio.
I used to work for the power company here
there was discussion for a while about, building a garbage burning,
electric generation plant
it just wasn't cost effective, at the time.
little recycling trucks and things throughout the city
there isn't any, advertising campaign.
There's just not any push to recycle.
I recycle my newspapers and, stuff.
that's what I do.
they make it as hard as possible,
it's not very convenient to do.
when they put centers and stuff like that.
we have those, which I think is one of the best things is those cash for cans.
I don't know if you all have those things around.
I really like that because that makes it real convenient because they're in almost every shopping center,
you can just stop by.
Now everything else like the and plastic and stuff you still have to go to the centers
for aluminum that's real nice
I started doing that at work.
I put out trash can for people to put their aluminum cans in,
that's really helped a lot,
everybody's pitched in
it doesn't bother them to walk little bit farther put their aluminum in a can rather than just throwing it in their trash can.
like that,
people are really concerned,
it's just that sometimes it's not the right people,
which is sad because, I wish we would do more .
At work we started, all the recycling stuff.
They're really trying,
I think what started it at work was that planet earth thing we had last year.
that really, started a lot of stuff off,
sometimes it dwindles down.
where I work now we recycle all the computer paper.
That's good.
that's about the extent of it.
at least your trying something.
It's just
it would be nice if it could be more.
I'm sure that the, driving factor for recycling the computer paper is that we get paid to do so.
do you really.
We sell the paper back paper manufacturing company.
that's a neat idea.
defrays the cost of buying the paper, I think.
not by much, but it does defray it some.
Enough to make it worth our while to have several bins through out the building.
really good,
at least they're trying.
I know a lot of companies that waste so much that,
I'm even trying,
that was one thing we noticed last week that we had some new people move into our building
the nice cardboard boxes that you move, packing boxes. *
they were just used one time and thrown in the dumpster
I thought, I don't understand this,
We're trying to cut cost and everything like that, recycle and all that stuff
here we are wasting.
I don't understand, sometimes, the logic behind it.
the last time, someone moved offices in my building
the, properties people came in good cardboard boxes.
Not the cheap ones of course.
And packed everything up and moved them and left them lying around,
took several home because I'm moving pretty soon
they're good boxes.
That's exactly what I did.
they were just going to throw them away.
Exactly what I did, exactly.
I didn't want to waste that.
it's hard enough to find good packing boxes (( )) .
these boxes are,
you can unfold them.
don't take up much storage space.
Exactly right,
that's very good .
felt a little guilty about taking the boxes for about two seconds until I realized they would be thrown away,
I thought, I was doing them a favor by taking them.
I found of them that had not even been folded into boxes,
that were in the dumpsters.
to the grocery store and stuff and get those boxes,
when, these are perfect,
the ones at the grocery store, half the time, they've pulled the lid off
you can't use it anyway.
the real sturdy boxes that copy room paper comes in, with the nice lids. Those get thrown away.
I am constantly scouting out the copy room for those boxes.
That's exactly what I do.
Those are perfect boxes to put files in.
They're good for storage and stuff like that.
That's what I do with a lot of my daughter's things is I'll store out dated or, season clothes in them
they're just perfect.
I've done in the past,
I don't have any now,
I would buy some cheap wallpaper from somewhere and cover those nice boxes with the lids,
you can stack them up leave them out and put things in them, even.
they look just as good.
That's a smart idea.
I think I'll have to try that.
That's really cute.
it's cheaper than going and buying the kind at Target that are all ready with the little design on them or whatever.
They're the exact same thing.
That's all they are,
they just made them look fancy.
You saved me some money.
. *
you're recycling .
Yes, *
that's neat.
do you all have,
we have places that, pay for paper to recycle,
I know you do yours at work,
for newspaper.
ours are real hard to find.
That's the one thing that really discourages me.
it's almost like they don't want the paper, because they don't pay, at all,
. *
they're real hard to find the places that pay.
that's really discouraging.
I just go ahead and take it to regular place, where just accept it.
huh. *
if they want people to recycle I think it's,
the aluminum,
it gets people doing it,
have to pay them a lot.
I live near a Walmart
there's a big, huge dumpster looking thing sitting out front,
in fact I think there's two of them, that have several openings,
it's for recycling
they have aluminum and newspaper and plastic and some other category,
I don't,
maybe there's two for aluminum.
you don't get paid
it's real convenient just to chunk the newspapers in there.
the one thing I don't like about the newspaper also is,
at work we have two different trash cans at your desk.
You have one for paper and one for just your normal trash,
the paper one you have to separate.
You have to make sure you don't throw away any of the slick paper, like magazines.
You can't throw any of that away
you can't throw certain file type things away,
I just think it's such a hassle,
it seems like easy to take it all,
I don't know,
of course, I don't know all that about recycling
it probably is a hassle.
I do get tired of having to separate paper,
It gets to be,
I guess you have to make it a habit,
you have to get so used to doing it that it's a habit.
we had, a write up in our paper, this last time at work about,
they come and empty your trash every other day they do your normal trash
every other day they do your recycling trash.
somebody was writing in complaining that the people had, dumped all the trash in the same bin.
when they were questioned about it they said we're running late,
we didn't have time to do those bins or something
that's real discouraging. Thinking you're sitting there working to separate it
someone else isn't going to take the time to put it in two separate bags.
really, trying to start keeping an eye out for those,
talking to the people again about,
separate them
that is discouraging do that .
It was hard to get used to those two different trash cans.
luckily that will all get straightened out
start separating them.
I don't mind doing that,
I feel like I'm something for the community when I'm doing that.
I've enjoyed talking to you.
You too.
I, thank you.
Okay .
. *
Where to start.
I think, *
I haven't had that much, of course
I just heard,
I haven't had that much time to think about it, either.
I guess the, biggest thing I is the financial
aspects, particularly, the ability of people to access, your financial records or, for example your credit, rating
almost at will.
That's true.
I didn't think about that.
of course (( flying )) ,
using your Social Security number, of course, permits people to do that
almost anything you do now, a Social Security number is required.
of course there's another aspect of this, too, in terms of invasion of privacy
I just thought about it,
being a professional of course, you probably belong to one or more professional organizations,
that is that
some of the organizations sell their mailing lists
which I think invasion of privacy.
I agree .
. *
I get some of these things in the mail that I wonder, where in the world did they get my address or where did they get my name .
huh. *
in fact, some of these things I get, some of these questionnaires,
it's funny because in the process of filling one out when I decided I would make this phone call,
, I haven't got to the end of it yet where it asks all that salary information and everything,
when you have to send that back in the mail with your name on it, your salary information, just have a real hard time doing that,
they ask you what type of household items do you own, like stereos and T V s and V C R s
you hate to send something off with your name and address
what types of things do you own
what kind of money do you make
you wonder, who's going to get ahold of this and think, that's a nice place to go rob .
not only that, opens you to phone solicitations
noticed more and more I would say over the last six months *
I am getting more at home phone solicitations
for a variety of things from,
I got one tonight about six thirty when I sat down to eat dinner,
carpet cleaning .
I've had them for carpet cleaning,
I've had them real estate investments
you get, please send in particular card and you get, a free trip or something along those lines.
bothers me because enjoy being at home and I do not enjoy getting called by strangers
having your,
I know that a lot of these, of course, are random phone calls
they just, start going through the phone book or going through a series of numbers,
some of them are sold,
I know you
talking about mailing lists, the ,
there is one particular group to which I belong
for some,
the reason they have three different names
for me.
the address is the same
office address .
they have one under, my first name, James.
They have one under my first name and initial
middle initial,
then they have third one under two initials.
I get mail
here at home under each of those names.
no .
I know that they have sold their mailing list.
I think those two things bother me more than anything else
as far as an invasion of privacy.
I can't really think of anything else offhand, that,
I think I dislike the phone number part the worst.
one thing to get junk mail because just put it right in the trash,
it's the phone calls,
usually when they call you, it's going to be down to dinner because that you're at work all day
they call you right you've just gotten home from work.
The last thing you want is a phone call unless it's, something halfway enjoyable,
if it's a salesperson, it's just something you don't want to have to mess with.
I've gotten a lot of them lately,
sometimes I come home from work
there's a lot of hang ups on my answering machine
I'm just assuming it's probably a salesman that called during the day
I wasn't home,
they'll probably call me up and, call me back and bother me when I sit down to dinner later on,
I find that very annoying . The, mail stuff,
it's kind of irritating,
it's not nearly as obnoxious as the phone calls.
you mentioning the phone calls during dinner,
. *
I know when I sit down with the family and want to have the opportunity, to talk
huh. *
and see what's going on and all those things,
even if friends call
it irritates me.
I try to,
I actually during that period of time six o'clock or six thirty, whenever I get home, until eight or so, I will shut off the phone
my daughter gets irate ,
do that because, she's a teenager
why are you cutting off the phone, *
. *
I might get an important phone call,
Right. *
three things are the, most irritating to me.
I agree with the phone, too, in that, I'm single,
when I come home from work, there's times I need to pay bills,
I need to balance my checking account,
I need to do all kinds of different things like that,
even though it's friends calling, sometimes you just feel like, this is my quiet time,
I need to get things done
the phone ringing bothers me,
where answering machines are nice, because if it's really important they'll leave a message
I can call them back .
That's right.
at work I have so many phone calls from customers calling in,
sometimes to get away from the phone ringing because really does annoy me.
if I've had a lot of phone calls during the day we have,
this past week,
we have to do a lot of troubleshooting when the programmers have installed a new system,
phone rings like crazy
you come home
the last thing you want to do is have to answer the phone.
if it's some salesman, that just makes it even that much worse.
it just,
I get to where turn the answering machine on and just let it pick up the phone,
now with this thing I'm participating in, I kind of have to answer it, because you never know if it's the switchboard or if it's, somebody calling that you really don't want to talk on the phone.
a, voice mail system the office.
what I have done is, I have forwarded my home phone
to the answering service at the office
so that I do not have to have a,
A ring at all.
a ring at all.
That's an idea .
want to do that.
I will just let the phone ring three or four times and know that it will forward the office.
makes it convenient.
at the office when I,
just route it directly to the answering service.
Ours is that way, too.
want to be, not bothered during the day, that's exactly what I do.
yours is probably the same as ours.
It's, (( Tigon ))
, isn't (( Tigon )) , part of G T E or vice versa or something like that.
Seems I read,
(( Tigon )) is part of G T E.
. *
that's it,
that G T E had purchased (( Tigon ))
huh. *
that's what we have.
Except we call it Aspen.
I couldn't remember in (( Tigon )) had purchased G T E s phone mail services or if G T E had purchased (( Tigon )) .
I knew there was some type of a tie in there.
I remember reading in the paper a few months back
G T E purchased (( Tigon )) .
we been using Aspen service before they purchased (( Tigon ))
I imagine we will be, shifting over to that service
in a while .
As soon as we determine what we're going to do with Contel after we bought Contel .
Dana, I think we have probably conversed long enough.
I think we did,
that's good .
All right.
I didn't think we could go too far on this privacy thing,
. *
I guess it's close enough .
All right, *
thank you for calling.
I ha , I,
Sure, good talking to you, Jim.
I enjoyed talking to you.
All right.
Bye bye.
Take care.
Capital punishment,
I honestly don't feel like it's strict enough in my opinion.
In the way that it's applied
or it's applied at all?
Applied at all.
how do you feel that it should be applied?
feel like there's a lot of murderers and rapists, and everything else, just walking the streets.
And the penalty ought to be out there, and be enforced?
Not getting paroled, lets say in so many,
if your going to sentence somebody, lets say twenty years, let them stay twenty years.
I agree with that completely.
I know we don't have enough prisons,
there has got to be some kind of punishment,
There has,
For these people.
that's right.
if they turn around, with it,
they get away with it,
they get away with it,
they do something worse
they get a slap on the wrist.
They get,
thirty days in jail
they final get up to where they kill somebody else,
they go through fourteen appeals, and
how many hundreds of thousands of taxpayer dollars.
That's right.
honestly right.
They have really got it better than we do, in a lot of ways . *
they certainly are living off our ex ,
they sure are
at our expense.
just because,
(( I didn't )) ,
some innocent person, can really,
it seems like, really (( )) a rough time
I'm not saying innocent person,
let's say someone wrote a hot check, for instance.
really seem like it's a rough time for them
a murderer well go to prison, *
he's just there to serve his time, and get back out on the street.
be paroled, and
and have served the sentence,
people face with that choice.
One thing I really hate, is they don't explain to the jurors, trial, in a capital murder trial, or in cases of rape, or in different things that are so horrible, what it means when they sentence them to,
they'll sentence them to ninety years
and say going to,
that should be life,
given the choice of either sentencing to death, or sentencing to life, they'll give them ninety years in prison or something, and then turn around in thirty years, that,
less they're out.
in that long.
they appeal,
they get an appeal that says it was, an unjust amount of time,
Time, huh.
an extraordinary long length, or something.
just be,
I would love to see them just really get real strict on parole
I'd like to see the death penalty more as a deterrent,
I think people know
not a deterrent right now, because it's not really effective.
There's should be, crime, this is the penalty.
You killed,
You get,
in cold blood
it back,
or whatever.
This is what's going to happen.
it sounds horrible.
I hear myself saying this,
don't know what else to do with some of these people,
that are,
they let them back out again,
they do the same thing over,
Same thing,
and over,
they put them back in jail,
they get out,
more and more innocent people are hurt or killed
these guys just are on the endless merry go round in the legal system.
it's like I said at our expense.
a lot of people really doesn't think that much about it, because it hasn't happened to them, which it hasn't to me either,
Thank goodness.
still, could.
I know,
read about it in the paper,
every day, somebody who's done this, or that, something really horrible
they just get away with it,
nothing happens.
as far as the other states, I honestly don't know what their capital punishment is.
haven't kept up, anything,
I think
like that.
I think the southern states seem to be somewhat more conservative and still have the death penalty,
California had it for a long time,
they, took it off the books,
they repealed it
people like Charles Manson, some of these other people, who were sentenced to death at the time they repealed the death penalty, were sentenced to life in prison,
and are that even though California has reinstated the death penalty, for whatever various crimes.
The people who were there originally, changed the laws to revoke the death penalty, in quote, for life, are now coming up for parole,
some of them,
like Manson who's come up
(( ))
it's been denied fortunately
still, it came up though, didn't it,
the jury that sentenced him, sentenced him to death
while he was on appeal on his thousandth and one appeal, the state of California revoked the law in the early seventies,
they reinstated it later,
the penalty didn't go back.
It seems like a lot of times the law totally on the criminal side, isn't protecting the rest of the people.
The victim is really, seems like left out in the cold, more or less, doesn't it,
you pick up the paper,
you read,
you think, oh my goodness
laws are all, the rules.
Some of the things that would make sense tell the jury, that guy has prior history, where he's raped ten women
he gets up for this one trial,
they don't finds anything out about the facts that he's done this over and over and over again
they say, this is,
don't know if they say it's the first time offense or whatever,
they give him a lighter sentence, thinking he's not a habitual criminal.
Or, plead insanity.
. *
And a lots of things. *
To some extent if they would do something with some of those people.
that seems to be a good way to get off for a lot of them too.
They plead insanity
three years later they're cured, and let loose on society again.
it just,
it's a
just doesn't make sense,
it's a scary world out there anymore, where your afraid to go out,
I know, the Dallas metroplex area, I don't go out hardly if I don't have to at night by myself
I, I grew up in a smaller town in Texas,
it wasn't that way when I was younger.
like I,
We could go around,
said, I live in a small place.
even the small towns now though, has really changed from when I was a kid,
now I'm raising children.
you can't even,
when I was a kid, I would run between my neighbors, three and four blocks sometimes, as long as my mom had a general idea where I was
and I was back on the time,
now I don't let my kids out of the front yard, that I can't see them.
See them.
It really is.
we're probably fixing to run out of time pretty,
I've enjoyed talking to you.
good talking to you too.
Bye bye .
the term personal computer,
I don't happen to have one at home.
I do have a personal computer on my desk here.
A type of work station?
a (( kluge )) that was pieced together shall we say bypass the formal procurement process.
works just fine.
It says it's a monochrome monitor, Panasonic printer, no big deal,
does the things I need for it to do.
Is it a two eighty six or three eighty six base machine?
it's not even that.
It's eighty eighty eight?
I think that's about where it is.
, what type of, utilizations do you make of it?
Word processing obviously.
I do that,
do, some Lotus on it. do some, Samna, some, P F M, nothing extremely complex.
I use them both here at work and at home.
I have I B M clones in both cases.
Here at work I have the T I one thousand which is a three eighty six base
I bet that's a pretty nice setup.
it is.
unfortunately I need all of it.
for example, I was messing around with a spreadsheet this weekend that's a third of a meg in beta size.
brings an eighty eighty eight machine to it's knees because , I had taken it over from a friend who was working on it
he had a two eighty six machine,
it brought it to it's knees.
Just in the ability to handle.
I have, a three eighty six F X a sixteen bit machine,
at home.
I'm really pleased with it.
It manages to take care of all my home needs in terms of word processing and spreadsheets and,
what I've gotten into more recently are the tools to use them.
Have you,
To try to make them more effective and useful.
Have you been, struggling along those lines?
I seem to always be in next to the last generation of word processing software.
When everyone was in Samna I was still in P F M,
now that I finally become proficient in Samna everybody's going to WordPerfect.
I can never quite stay current with that.
I think you will be real pleased to get away from the banana as I used to call it.
I used it on, some other machines in days gone by and was real pleased to leave it.
It was a real memory hog when you started making large (( blot )) changes to it.
at least the version I had tended to keep copies of that.
Of what you were changing and deleting off in memory until a sudden you got a disc full error.
Not a fun thing to try to recover from.
I can bel ,
Very frustrating.
I can believe that.
again I've been dealing with large files both data otherwise.
that was a engineering spec on B two.
You come here with the B level of specs?
not really.
I'm not that up be on that sort of thing.
it's just a huge file that tries to describe the requirements of what you're trying to build.
to one level down from assistant description.
it sounds like you're pretty much into computers.
I sure need them.
there's no way that I could begin to process and keep up with the kinds of information or the magnitude of information that I need try to do my job without them.
I can believe that.
been interesting.
maybe you'll play around some and figure out how they can help you do different things.
I think that's when start deciding that you really need greater assets than you already have.
When you start seeing what all they can do for you.
of course, needs and wants aren't necessarily the same thing.
I understand that , (( ))
if, needs and wants were the same I'd have a four eighty six machine at home .
I wo ,
that the newest thing now, the four eighty six?
must be a fairly recent release.
came out around the first of the year.
had done capital packages for two eighty sixes and three eighty sixes,
I didn't know they had a four eighty six just yet.
It does a few more things,
than had been available before.
I'm not sure that it's such a massive improvement.
once you get passed thirty three megahertz, all help is, kind of lost translation.
Because (( you no longer )) can think that fast anyway.
I enjoyed our discussion.
I did too,
you have a good day.
You do the same.
Bye bye.
All Right.
Ladies, first.
I don't find a lot of time to watch T V.
a lot of time, I find it during the day I'm rocking my little girl to sleep,
I watch a lot of reruns, old shows,
(( )) . *
Like DICK VAN DYKE, all those old crazy shows.
Barney Fife, I guess. *
Yeah .
I really enjoy watching ANDY GRIFFITH.
some ,
your a homemaker?
I guess, that's, the right term nowadays.
I guess so.
I am.
I stay home with two kids.
My wife,
we have a new one in the house
she stays home, too, also.
I guess, I have a wide variety.
I like watching the T V for things that are interesting,
not so much the things that aren't,
for example, the COSBY SHOW to me is just kind of like a waste of my time,
and DIFFERENT STROKES.
I like SIXTY MINUTES,
PRIME TIME LIVE.
Of course, I have to watch cartoons on Saturday morning, but not the NINJA TURTLES.
I like the old timey ones,
. *
TOM AND JERRY.
Yeah. *
You sound like my husband.
There you go.
He likes TOM AND JERRY and, BUGS BUNNY AND ALL HIS FRIENDS.
And all those guys.
JOHNNIE QUEST. (( )) the good ones.
if I'm ever home day on a vacation day, I have to catch at twelve o'clock the ANDY GRIFFITH SHOW, because I usually,
Yeah. *
because one of my idles.
I don't know,
it seems like nowadays everything is so electronic, magnified and animated,
that you can grab from the old style movies and old style shows a little bit more insight to family groupings.
(( I do, )) with the COSBY SHOW,
I have seen it a couple of times
I do,
I like the show.
I just don't watch it.
Because of the timing,
some of the crap that's on T V nowadays,
it's (( about )) .
I do watch the special shows that they come out with, the NOVA stuff.
the nature shows.
I think there's enough out there to pick from.
I'm not,
we don't have cable to the point the H B O or any of that stuff.
I find myself watching just a whole lot of whatever is geared for children. Because, *
with two kids
I don't want them watching something that I don't think they should watch
I used to be really hooked on ALL MY CHILDREN,
I watched that for ten or fifteen straight years,
at work, we'd have a T V or whatever.
as my kids got older and started, recognizing what was going on, I thought, this isn't really very good .
. *
I gave it up.
Fifteen years.
Bet they hated that.
it since it started.
now don't know who the characters are,
I'll turn it on every once in awhile
I don't recognize anybody,
I guess that's a good sign .
I used to watch,
I can recall,
this might here,
I can remember staying home, when I was five and six,
and my mother watching the EDGE OF NIGHT.
you're probably about the same age as me because my mom watched the SECRET STORM,
SECRET STORM.
and the EDGE OF NIGHT.
I think they were back to back,
and black and white.
(( I was )) just a youngster
I was like, my gosh.
we used to,
my mother watched all that stuff, too.
Still be on.
still on or not.
It was not too long ago.
Now they got a lot of other crap involved.
You're right.
I think some of the tones of daily prime time is questionable,
that could be,
I have to agree with you.
keep them on the
The nature stuff, .
We do,
it's real interesting, too, the difference in my kids,
my oldest loved SESAME STREET,
And those kind of shows.
My younger one doesn't.
She's more into WALT DISNEY kind,
we watch a lot of movies that we've got
and stuff.
She's more into the animated stuff, where my other daughter liked puppets and that kind of thing
we do a lot of kid watching.
sounds like you got your hands full there,
I do appreciate speaking with you.
It was fun.
Have you gotten your catalog yet?
I don't think so.
I just spoke with Jim.
I just got my in the mail *
it inspired me to make more phone calls .
I don't really.
I've had a few people call me,
I've never made one.
I need to get brave .
(( Give them )) your pen number. *
That's what I need to do.
Have a good day.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
All right.
All right.
What are some of your favorite foods?
I imagine in Argentina you've got some great foods.
we got, a lot of, European dishes.
what some people call the best beef in the world.
it's, Bishu ,
every Sunday you go out,
you buy all these parts of the cow,
you just cook them over a grill.
in our house, it's already built in.
There's this whole special place in the back
you can make a barbecue.
that meal in New York, where they bring you a plank, sort of, with all this wonderful beef
parts of beef, cooked and barbecued
it's marvelous (( )) .
I have to find a place around here that has that.
Argentinean place down in Georgetown.
I'll keep that in mind,
You serve that yourself, or a family?
Excuse me?
You ever serve that yourself when you have company?
the problem is, I'm only twenty two
when I'm down at home
and somebody says okay, we having this,
I'll cook it.
you have to prepare the fire, and then put the sausages on,
you put all these different meats which take different times.
Do you buy them, separately at, an American grocery store now,
do you have to,
go buy it from a wholesaler.
what happens is in Argentina they have all these little places
Little butcher shops, yeah. *
like the fruit stand, and, the dairy, and products and whatever,
I've lived in Mexico,
I know.
the meat place.
you just go there
you can't find chicken there,
you got to go to another place to find the chicken.
poultry place.
do you serve with it?
basically, it's, what we call it impenadas
The turnover,
the stuffed turnover.
meat turnovers.
I love those,
we also put sausages on a bun,
to start out with.
what you have is also three different kinds of salad.
that's about it.
Do you remember when you were in Washington, Sam the Argentine baker?
It used to be in Georgetown, years ago.
He moved,
I guess retired and went back to Argentina,
I guess, in the early seventies.
before your time.
Your parents might remember if they were here then.
we were only there for two years.
he was wonderful.
We used to get the most marvelous impenadas and other
Argentine things.
also eat now, since I graduate,
I have an Italian roommate,
I'm Italian.
Are you?
Argentinean we also have a lot of pasta.
there're many Italians in Argentina.
my mom, makes
what we call niokes , and *
all this stuff, that it's
came to the United States through Argentina.
This was around the turn of the century.
a little bit later, like nineteen thirteen.
At one point, one third of the population of Argentina was Italian.
. *
pure Italians.
Yeah, *
I'll tell you,
it's interesting, because when we cook here,
I'm of Italian descent.
My husband is Chinese.
both love Continental cooking, French cooking.
we cook,
our meals are,
usually mix.
I mean, that sometimes
if we're entertaining we'll do a Chinese recipe
Right . *
there are really easy recipe
with Chinese you always have several dishes .
Yeah. *
nowadays with microwaves,
you can steam many of the things in a microwave.
I don't know if you have one.
if you like Chinese food, you can take filet of fish
and put a little bit of soy sauce and a little bit of sesame oil on top of it
and chop some scallions and a little ginger
and just cover it with some, waxed paper and steam it just until the fish is done,
it's a wonderful
Is it?
flavorful piece of fish.
I was at,
it's like, go buy fish,
I buy the fish
you can do it in the microwave
the breaded fish,
I've seen, the filet.
buy a fresh filet of fish, a nice one at
What kind of fish?
any white fish.
Sole is good, flounder
sole or flounder is real good. And even grouper.
we put soy sauce and sesame.
Little bit of soy sauce and seed oil.
not too much soy sauce.
some chopped up slivers of scallions.
And slivers of ginger. And then just cover it and put it in the microwave for minutes, check it after two minutes to see if the fish flakes.
if the fish flakes, it's done.
Don't overcook it though.
one of those little, microwaves,
the ones that take forever to boil a cup of water.
you see, just check it, during,
another quick dish if you like, do you know what hoi sin sauce is, *
it's that sweet Chinese sauce?
I don't.
if you go in a Chinese store ask for hoi sin, H O I S I N.
Wait, wait, wait, H, *
H O I ,
H O I,
S I N, or S E N
S I N,
either way they'll spell it. Hoi Sin sauce.
It's a very sweet dark, sort of a purplish plum sauce, purplish brown.
if you take, little pieces of pork and you fry them, like little cubes of pork.
And you fry them with garlic and a hot pepper
and then mix some hoi sin sauce with sherry, just a little sherry
to thin it, and stir that in. You can even put a spoon of ketchup in,
that makes a great pork dish with a sort of a spicy sweet sauce, that you can serve over rice.
pork do you buy
for two people.
For two people, if it's American style, I buy a half a pound. just serving that,
if you're serving another dish with it, say the rice dish
with guys pretty healthy appetites, I'd probably go a third of a pound
you could,
I could probably go half a pound .
And heat it up again, and save,
since I'm from Argentina, I just love meat.
You can also do the same thing if you have ground beef.
Just stir fry the ground beef.
Drain off the oil.
Use the same hoi sin sauce and some of the frozen mixed vegetables.
Just stir that in
you've got a very colorful side, another dish.
how much does it cost?
the hoi sin sauce?
a dollar twenty nine a can.
A can would serve you for quite a few, meals,
I thought it was maybe five fifty or something.
it's not expensive at all.
It's one of the Chinese cooking basics.
listen, it was good talking with you.
Same here.
Hope you enjoy your recipe.
All right.
Thank you.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
hard topic because
is it doing a good job or a bad job
you got to divide it two different categories whether you live in the city or whether you live in a more rural place like I do.
are you talking about public schools being lower level, high school level or
public school all the way up
state school.
kindergarten all the way up to, high school.
you're excluding high level education.
I am.
I think that, higher level education,
I don't think there's so much of a problem there.
It's pretty much funded well.
There are small colleges that I'm sure are struggling
it's the job that high school and the grade schools are doing that I see, in a area like ours,
our school,
even a bad school is a good school up here, where, if I lived in New York City or Washington, D C, I would seriously consider moving if I had a child.
I wouldn't let them go to a public school system there.
of course, people are trapped economically
they can't do that.
I know down here the school's are,
I don't know,
they rate,
I moved to Arkansas and Texas after living in Ohio
the schools down here rate, bottom ten percent across the country
having been through grade school up there and coming down here to high school I can understand why.
they're so far behind and so poorly staffed, half the time the teachers don't know what's going on.
that's really too bad because giving some people unfair advantage.
high school up here is like a junior college in Florida
what we learned.
that was my experience going through junior high up there
when I came down south for high school I was just repeating what I'd already done.
Because we were so far advanced.
I'd been in a parochial school before junior high
even the public schools are behind the parochial schools.
like the concept they've got now where they have more directed education,
pick a career path
you get counseling earlier
learn the things that help you rather than spending four years learning the same things over and over.
they have that down there that,
they talk about it
there are a few in some of the more, like in
I live in a big Metroplex
some of better parts of the Metroplex, suburbs that are richer have those kind of target schools.
it's like your father owns a grocery store and you're really interested in that,
there's no reason that you should take college prep courses when you can get some
general business courses in high school.
if you're going to go the science route you can go to a target school that specializes in science or art.
there's no point in,
I'm an engineering student
if I have to go take art classes, I'm not going to use them.
through high school I could have gone so much further if I'd gone to a school that was directed.
that's true.
I was fortunate.
we had a vocational, electronics in our high school.
in high school.
when I went to my first year of tech school, I had a very easy time because our high school
had good program.
I think the schools today, overrun,
they don't know what to do,
there's too many kids and not enough teachers
too many of the kids don't care.
I find that
that the, that cities, it's more like the kids go there socialize
not really to learn
the parents send them there because they're supposed to,
it gets them out of their hair.
I also find you can send a kid to school,
if don't work with them as a parent, I think you're putting your child at a big disadvantage.
there's some kids that, want to go learn,
most of them just want to go play.
see if a kid doesn't have any encouragement if, come from a broken home and they're parents are more concerned about trying to work *
maybe they're unemployed
they're mad at the world,
I can see where that wouldn't be very good for kid,
he's coming up, will you help me with my homework
they're, no, get away from me,
I've had a terrible day.
it's got a lot to do with economics in the area that you come from.
that's true.
I'm wondering with the boom down here.
It's, not at the moment,
a lot of the industry's moving southward.
are they going to move to,
I don't know about that,
a lot of the industry up in, the northern states is moving south
I'm wondering if that's going to have any effect, on what you see now.
we're behind down here.
On the,
I say we because I live here.
that might not turn around in the next, years.
bring their good schools with them.
if the industry comes
hopefully they'll promote good schools.
I know the town that I come from the large I B M plant has something to do with the top rated high school because of their tax base for one
the type of student that's going to that school, it's going to raise the level of the school
because your parents are engineers or chemists.
you're most likely to do better in school.
They're going to help you.
You hope.
you hope .
I think,
don't know.
I just think it's a duty of the parent to do that.
jeez, my parents always helped me
I don't know,
it's just like you say,
it's the way you're raised and the economic situation you're in.
I can see some lady,
she's twenty one years old
she's got four kids.
A kid in,
her first grader,
I don't see where she's going to have much time for them.
I don't know.
It's just like,
I guess you just have to wonder,
is it up to the,
is it,
supposed to make the change, state,
where's the money supposed to come from.
Is it,
I don't know.
Actually, should be
do you advocate, more taxes or better management of what they got?
and system level really to find out, and see what they need and not overinflate it,
if the teachers are getting six percent raises every year when people in industry have been getting cut back, and you're getting
Yeah .
raises every eighteen months you got to go now, hey, wait a minute,
we're in a recession here.
town didn't pass the school budget this year for the first time in years just because people in the recession
even though we've, enjoyed very good employment here for the past ten years,
now we got eight percent, unemployment when it used to be four or five.
People are going, whoa.
Starts hitting closer to home.
I always, see money.
like a couple other topics we had talked about was crime.
it's all money based.
what you can do unless you just get down to the parent level
if you're in a bad situation where you have to send your child to a bad school.
Who knows,
bu ,
maybe some more Catholic schools,
support the church instead .
They seem to have done a, good job in the past.
In, some places, you couldn't go to a public school.
It was miles down the road
the only school you could go to was the Baptist school or the Catholic school
they're a lot more strict.
I don't,
You, have to learn,
you aren't given the chance to, screw off all the time.
I don't know if I would do that to my child, though.
pretty much, though,
I don't have any good ideas anything that would contribute.
this isn't a subject that I think a lot about because I'm never faced with it because our school system in Vermont, it seems to do a really good job.
I know I'm in the,
the only reason I asked about secondary schools or, advanced education is because down here, going to the University of Texas, the education I'm getting I think is kind of shoddy for a public school.
Is it?
don't think I'm getting what I should,
in Texas, it's next to free because pay so much of it.
It's state supported.
at the same time like going to M I T.
My engineering degree will be nothing like somebody coming out of M I T.
really too bad
I don't know,
I think it just builds on the foundation that they've already built.
You get people out of high schools and that don't have the background for an M I T kind of curriculum.
you have to go to a lesser engineering school.
We have a very good public school up here
a degree out there means a lot.
It's a very good school.
University of Vermont.
we also have some two year college.
there's a four year colleges.
They all have a pretty good reputation.
like you say, you,
There we go.
I think the weather lately has been a bit warmer than I would expect this time of year.
I think that's true.
Bermuda grass is greening up in March,
sometimes doesn't really start doing that until the first part of April.
I think we're a little of schedule on that.
I was out in my yard yesterday afternoon,
I noticed all that grass coming up,
I thought,
we've got to start this mowing bit soon .
That's true.
It's been fun break,
the break is over.
I guess another thing I've noticed, too, here lately is that even though we've had some pretty warm days, it's been awfully gray, just,
the last couple of weekends have been nice and sunny.
it seems like every time at work I look out my window it's gray .
I'd rather have a sunny weekend than a gray weekend.
I go for that,
In fact, I'm a little worried about this one coming up here.
We have a long weekend
it sounds like it's going to be a little bit on the cool side.
I haven't heard whether it's going to rain or not.
I think there's an eighty percent chance this evening,
it's supposed to be cleared out at least by noon tomorrow
the rest will be without rain.
that's good.
I think the highs are going to be in the sixties, and the lows in the forties.
That's getting back to a little bit chillier.
that probably is a little bit under what it is for this time of year.
I think,
I haven't seen on the news in the evening lately,
I think the average high about seventy.
I'm not certain either,
you're probably right.
I like it when it's sort of a medium temperature, maybe seventy five to eighty, somewhere in there.
I don't like it when it's too cool or too warm.
I'm much more apt to get things done when it's at that sort of in between temperature.
that's true.
one of the remarkable things about the weather in the summertime here is that quite often the average daytime high of say ninety nine degrees is within five or six degrees of the all time record high.
what that tells me, is that the summer weather is very predictable, that it doesn't vary very much.
You're probably right.
any other time of year, that's not the case, because it could be very warm or very cold.
as a matter of fact, I heard the weather the other day on T V
and I think it was one day this week a year ago
they said that we had a freeze and some kind of bad weather.
it wasn't just a super bad storm,
it was
it was that sort of thing that we never like to see in late spring time.
One of the weirdest things I saw, I think it was around this time last year was a twenty six degree lightening storm.
was going into the grocery store,
lightening bolt was almost directly overhead,
it was twenty six degrees out.
I thought, gee, never known it to lightening at that temperature.
is pretty unusual.
you really take notice of it, too.
That's right.
probably was a lot warmer up high.
Sometimes they get those inversions, like when we had that twelve and a half days a few years ago that it never got up as high as freezing.
The air temperature at five thousand feet was fifty degrees.
The cold weather was just simply trapped along the ground and couldn't get away.
I like that super cold stuff.
I just don't move very well when it's that cold.
really enjoying this now.
this has been interesting.
Not too challenging to the brain.
a real in depth topic, but
enjoyed talking to you.
All right, Ellen,
you have a good day.
Bye bye.
Are you a player?
think I am.
been a while now .
Has it?
just recently I got married
we bought a house.
We're about fifty yards from the golf course
unfortunately the house is taking up my time.
almost a year, I guess, since I've actually, swung a club for a purpose.
played in about two years,
I went out two weeks ago with the guys here.
I work at T I.
I played in a tournament out there,
I shot a net fifty nine.
They were kind of, little upset.
I guess I laid off long enough to get rid of all my bad habits.
I have a hard time inventing shots,
Let's go around this tree, and
try a slice through a hook here,
I can't do that
I finally got out,
I've been watching quite a few videos.
I had not been able to play
I took out a few videos and watched them for a while,
hope I'm on the right track.
Shot a career low eighty nine, my handicap is twenty nine.
I like that.
Now been a while for me, too.
got my wife motivated about it,
I think that's probably going to be one of the next investments, is a set of clubs
we'll get out of the driving range get some interest built up
hopefully start in.
I've tried to get my wife,
I bought her a set of clubs four years ago.
She hasn't even swung them,
she wants to get into it now after I came home and won the tournament the other day,
That's good,
she's ready to get off into it,
getting out, being in the outdoors,
I'm a hunter and fisher anyway,
same thing here.
at least I can get out and play a few hours of golf
it's not going to cost me an arm and a leg, really.
I don't ride
I get a little exercise there, too,
I've got the same attitude.
tell you,
I started,
I guess, the first time I played golf has been probably about eight or ten years ago now, when I was in college.
it as a P E course and then kind of left it alone for a while,
finally into it still in school
since then, we've made it,
the friends start getting married and things like that, we've made a tradition of, having Thursday,
probably a Thursday night bachelor party and a Friday golf day before the wedding.
that's back in South Dakota where I grew up
that's been involvement,
is it seems like I go home and play golf more than I do around here,
eventually I get people to come and visit me in Dallas,
I'll show them we can play golf in the middle of winter when we can't do it back home.
it's pretty nice.
We played out here a couple of times in the middle of the winter when my parents came down and what not.
They were amazed.
here it is, sixty five degrees,
we're out playing golf,
they're freezing cold back there,
picked it up when I was in high school, on the same as a P E course,
when I got into the service I got into it
now when I come out here I just kind of let it go,
of the guys mentioned to me at work one day if I played golf.
I said, yeah,
I've got my clubs,
I haven't swung them in quite a few years.
I got into it and then back out of it,
it just seems like every couple of years I get back in there .
that's right.
I really enjoy it.
It's really nice.
it's a lot of fun, especially if you can find somebody got the same level of interest.
That seem to be the hardest
true of any sport,
If you want to play tennis, or
you don't want to go out and get beat to death,
people don't want to play with somebody that they are going to beat every time,
we've got some guys here that they are, four and five handicappers
they don't like to play with me because I'm too slow for them,
get somebody around your own handicap, and you can just mosey on out for three or four hours and have a good time.
That's right,
yet have I walked up,
I've walked up a few times on the golf course by myself with nobody else to play with,
never yet have I met anybody on the golf course that wouldn't allow me to join their twosome or threesome.
That's true.
They are always friendly.
That's true.
Sure, come on out,
they don't mind if you make a mistake,
they don't mind saying, let me you how to do that or teach you how to do that, or,
pretty nice and friendly out there
that's so.
you can't find that in all sports.
that's absolutely right,
you can gain a lot of ground doing that, too,
in a rut if you do play a lot
you play with the same people, aren't going to learn anything.
After a short period, once you learn everything they've got to offer,
you need to,
you've basically tapped your resources there.
work up, my wife does get interested, and maybe get involved doubles league, or something like that.
have one down here in the summertime.
it runs from five o'clock to seven thirty
or eight o'clock, because it doesn't get dark until nine thirty or ten.
we play in the summertime out here.
We get a mixed league in,
that's what I'm trying to get her ready for.
It's going to start, when we change time back whenever that is
next month, I guess,
it will start then,
we had a lot of girls out there a couple of years ago,
they were just starting to learn,
they were shooting a hundred, hundred and twenty
they were,
now they're down into the hundreds
it won't take her long.
that's good
that's good, that's sounds like a lot of fun.
it's something we can do together,
she doesn't do much hunting,
she could care less about that.
She's does a little fishing,
golf would give her the exercise,
she'd be outside,
give her something to do that we both enjoy,
sounds like we've got real similar situations.
I go home, I've gone home every year now since I've moved to Dallas go pheasant hunting,
last time took my wife along
of the same situation.
up in the house and talked to my mother the whole time we were out hunting and stuff,
make the trip for fishing
if that comes along,
All right.
a game that you don't,
like bowling, you feel bad if you bowl a hundred.
if you shoot a hundred in golf,
you don't have to be an expert to play,
That's right.
Any novice can pick up a club and learn how to hold one and learn how to do it and do it right.
you don't have to be an expert in any aspect of it at all.
That's right,
kind of formed the attitude that, pick two or three shots of my game every time and put them together on one hole, then I do pretty good
rationalizing that I can do it,
I just got to do it all same hole,
it will get better,
you just keep going,
in the meantime, just enjoy what you're doing.
it really works that way .
I first got back into it, I used to get mad because I knew I could do something
I didn't get it done.
need to slice this ball around here,
I naturally slice anyway,
the ball will go straight
I go
I never broke a club or anything,
I'd get upset about it sometimes,
now I guess, being in my forties, I just kind of mellowed out a little bit.
I don't get upset any more.
that's great.
I've enjoyed talking to you.
you bet.
I guess I'll go back to work.
sounds like it.
All right.
See you later (( )) .
Bye bye.
I haven't had too much of a chance to watch T V lately.
probably everything I going to say is kind of dated.
I can understand that.
It's that time of the year.
recently moved into our house.
spend a lot of time on the house and out in the yard and things. But.
like to keep up to date too.
I guess, in the,
since I got out of college, which was about five years ago, my T V viewing started to tend more towards, documentary, news programs, things like that.
Something that's going to keep mu up to date.
I've gotten away from, being a series watcher, having to keep up to date with,
I think when you're in college you have more of a regular schedule
in terms of, you can watch every week.
that makes a big difference.
used to,
when my kids were real little and I was home, I watched,
where I was home where I watched things on a more regular basis.
right now, the last things I watched regularly was THIRTY SOMETHING when it first came out.
Did you all ever watch that?
started, too, and,
worked away from that.
have a hard time sticking with something
on T V, because, gets real aggravating if you miss it, for a week or two.
You feel kind of left out .
I know,
I tell you what,
we're really strict with our kids about television,
one night, couple weeks ago, it was just happened that we were exhausted
they wanted to watch,
we said okay, we'll sit down
we'll, look at what you want to see.
Let's just turn it on and see what's on.
We could not find anything that had any kind of redeeming value in it.
I believe that.
it was prime time,
it was, what, on a week night
we have cable,
there wasn't anything on any channel,
the stuff that was on the prime, the networks, A B C, N B C, C B S, was,
it was just, dribble
it wasn't even funny
That's right.
it wasn't creative,
was the worst I've seen.
I have not watched prime time, week night T V, I guess in a real long time
because I was shocked.
I know exactly how you feel.
You know what I'm saying.
That's right.
first moved down here, moved into the apartment and got cable, I guess I became numb.
Nothing surprised me any more seeing it on the T V,
all of a sudden, I started attention to network T V again, once in a while.
Right now we don't have cable.
it's surprising how much it's changed
the whole moral situation, everything, is just gone one whole complete direction different.
we don't have any kids yet,
I feel the same way.
It's really tough to find something that's
going to be good and interesting for the kids. cartoons,
you watch some of the cartoons,
even going to understand half the humor that's in there.
none of it's probably damaging, lot of times.
like a necessary evil.
children were younger, when they were like four years old, three years old, five years old, we just had Sesame Street
that was about it,
now, in order to seem, humane and normal, we do allow them to watch cartoons and stuff.
it's, just one of those things,
you have to shut your eyes or not listen or something, because those drive you crazy, in the room.
That's right.
it's such a shame, because it could be so good.
I don't understand why, first of all, the public puts up with it.
that's true.
Second of all, why the networks think that, we enjoy that kind of stuff.
It's hard to believe that nobody can be any more creative than that.
That can't be the problem.
It must be the marketing pressures,
their demographic studies that they do that show, that everybody's I Q has dropped dramatically or something.
I'm glad you said it
I didn't have to.
that's the,
I feel the exact same way.
and watch some shows,
I'm embarrassed for the people that are even involved in the show.
I know.
why do you do this to yourself?
Why do you do this?
I know,
I'm trying to think if there's anything I do,
stuff that's on Great Performances,
used to watch mystery quite a bit
and things like that.
Stuff I guess that mostly public, on public T V.
As a matter of fact, when I was a kid, my parents used to have,
we had this rule in our house for every hour of regular T V that we watched, we had to watch an hour of public T V .
there's an idea.
That was just the rule.
if they saw us watching something,
they'd say, all right, what did you see on WHAT'S NEW,
there was some other,
the children's program I think at the time was called WHAT'S NEW.
we had to give a little oral report before we could watch our program.
That's pretty good.
watch sports on T V?
Are you a sports fan?
I can't handle it very long.
Yeah .
I'm a sports fan,
kind of, it's kind of like reading magazines any more.
If half of the time wasn't spent watching commercials, it probably wouldn't be so bad.
you're missing an awful lot.
I'd a game on T V than fight the crowds at the stadium.
that's true,
the traffic.
I don't sit down,
I'll sit down for the big games, the Super Bowl, and the championship
things like that.
I don't follow any team.
I check the scores the next morning,
I know how everybody's doing,
that suffices me.
once in a while.
enjoy that,
do you get that come .
You don't have cable now,
I was going to say they have a comedy channel now.
again you're in a situation where you're watching mostly, commercials,
you're, trying to pass the time to wait until the next comedian comes up.
You know what I did.
There was a time there where I could tape things
I'd fast forward through the
Saved a lot of time that way.
it works,
you bet,
that takes too much planning.
I don't know,
if there's series that I pay attention to, I try to watch CHEERS once in a while.
Now still real good.
It used to be real good.
it is.
Is it.
In fact, on tonight .
Oh .
I just got in from outside,
I'm kind of out of it.
Things like that,
I consider that fairly intelligent humor.
You can tell,
they pick up the words every once in a while.
Isn't it such a long running program.
writers for that.
that makes me think,
do you watch SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE at all?
I try to.
we try to stay up, too .
Yeah .
It's getting harder and harder.
Ten years ago wasn't so hard to stay up.
just automatic, too,
no matter where you were you stopped and sat down and watched it.
I think it's come around again.
It's gone through cycles.
it was,
we stopped watching for a couple of years in the middle there,
we started watching again.
it's real different show than it was when it started.
It's funny now,
it's better,
it's real different
That's right.
than what it used to be.
That's right.
if you keep that same format.
There's only so long that you can be outrageous.
I guess there are a few things around still
you have to hunt hard for them.
Sounds like you pretty much agree.
I guess so.
Been, good talking to you.
good talking to you.
Take care.
You too.
what kind of cars are you looking at?
we've test driven the Oldsmobile Delta Eighty eight
and a Cutlass Supreme and a used Cadillac, about three or four years old
because, I get married in a couple of weeks
I have two kids
my fiancee has two kids
we need a car that's big enough for six.
Yeah .
car shopping
and looked around.
We found something interesting at Crest Oldsmobile Cadillac up there on Central Expressway
that, in addition to getting a new car there, they can get you a car that's new
it's been, a demonstrator model
for two or three thousand dollars even cheaper than the best deal they can give you for a new car.
they call this program cars,
they come,
with a new car warranty,
it just seems to make sense to me to get the most car for your money to get something like that.
That's a real good deal.
In fact my dad recently got Pontiac, believe six thousand
he got a demo.
it's been a real good car
like new
it only low mileage on it.
I think he got a real good deal.
Of course, they're fully loaded usually.
a pretty good option.
I think so too.
Are the, Oldsmobiles that you're looking at, are they the demos
they used,
are they new .
the ones that we were test driving new ones
they may be the demonstrator models that the sales reps drive around in.
the Cadillac definitely a used car
The guy said it'd been on the lot about thirty minutes.
He says it'll probably be gone in a done,
it's probably gone by now.
no .
Those things go fast.
of course consider getting a brand new Cadillac, because those are twenty five to thirty thousand dollars.
when they're three years old they're,
the price already drops in half.
it becomes, more realistic.
That's what I'm thinking about on my next car is do I want to get another brand new car because last two cars are brand new
do I look for a used car that's maybe years old that
but that's, low mileage and in good shape.
kind of worry about getting a car that's that new with low mileage on it because you wonder why did the person that owned it want to get rid of it.
Is it a lemon,
That's right.
is something wrong with it
That's right.
I guess that's a risk you have to take.
you can reduce that risk by, having the car checked out,
if you're going to look at fifty different cars you don't want to do this
if you've narrowed it down to one or two
you can have the car, checked at, an independent service station
and have them go through it from top to bottom and tell you if they can find anything wrong, because they don't have any financial interest in it.
you'll have a realistic assessment of what you're getting.
About how much do they charge to do something like that,
do you know?
I'm thinking around twenty or twenty five dollars.
that's not bad.
It'd be well worth it if you're considering buying a car .
think so.
to find out.
I would think so.
it's kind of hard for me to talk about buying cars because I just got mine paid off about a month ago,
Isn't that a good feeling.
I don't want to think about buying a car for a while.
I just want to enjoy not having any car payments for a while
That's right.
and enjoy watching my savings account get larger and, hang on to the one I've got for a few years because it's almost four years old,
it's still in great shape.
I have a Mazda R X seven.
what you can do is take your car payment and put it in the bank for three or four years
when you're ready to get another car just pay cash for it.
I just about could really
because I think my car,
if I continue taking good care of it, it's going to hold a pretty good resale value
if I consider going the used car route and save up some money, I shouldn't have too much trouble at all.
would think that's true.
Could you hold on for just a moment?
I'm on a cordless phone,
I was picking up, some background noise,
I just switched the channel up on it.
I didn't want to interfere with whatever they're trying to record.
that's fine.
enjoy the car I have now,
I do want to hold onto it enjoy it while it's not having any mechanical problems whatsoever,
That's right.
in fact it never has
That's right.
it's been kind of nice,
not tired of the car at all
I want to hang on to it while it's still being a good car and while I'm not tired of it while I'm single
and can handle a two seater for now
That's right.
and get that out of my system.
That's right.
one of these days I'll be getting a six seater probably too.
the first two cars I ever bought,
I've bought three cars,
I've always bought them new.
The first car I kept for thirteen and a half years
and got a hundred and sixty one thousand out of it.
The second car I ever bought I drive to work now.
That just turned ten years old,
I've got a hundred and twenty two thousand miles on that.
kind of in the way I've done things is to get things that are new and then keep them forever.
my car is using two quarts of oil a week now.
my gosh .
a quart every hundred miles.
it runs fine,
all you hav ,
it's just very thirsty.
If I just keep the oil in, it seems to be okay.
that's a sign that I'm going to have to do something sooner or later.
What kind of car is it?
It's Buick Century.
Are you going to trade it in on this new one
my fiance is selling, a nineteen seventy eight Cutlass Supreme that she has.
It's actually,
in better condition than my car.
she's going to get some money for that and take some money from the bank and then try to make as much down payment as possible
to keep the monthly payment low.
she's going to sell it rather than trade it in.
That's probably the best thing.
You lose four to six hundred dollars a trade in.
maybe more than that, as I've learned.
When I bought my R X seven, best offer I got for my other car was twenty five hundred.
I turned around and sold it myself for forty two hundred.
there you go.
You can do much better.
I'm glad taking care of it yourself.
think trading it in, they just use that as additional,
they may give you supposedly a better deal on your new car you're buying,
they just, are going to give you that much less for your trade in.
that's fact.
What I think.
I think you're right.
strangely enough, I had made with a dealer on my car was also the same place I got the best price
trade in,
it's a place in Arlington,
I think, maybe, as you get outside the Dallas area,
I kind of,
I bet you it's kind of what I decided.
maybe because it's outside of Dallas they are giving a little bit better prices,
I was going through that T I fleet discount program.
you use it at the car shop place.
it's before they had that.
I had gone over to Texins
they had a little file where they said which dealers participated fleet program,
That's right,
what you could expect, they said, a five percent over cost
and then options at cost and everything.
I figured out a price based on that.
that's good.
guess I got a pretty good deal, because I went back to the Town North Mazda right off Central
and offered them the same price as what I knew I was going to be able to get it for in Arlington
they said there is no way you can get this car for that price, especially if we add on the equalizer
and the cruise control.
He said, You're going to get a car that's got flood damage or hail damage.
they just laughed at me.
I went the next morning to Arlington,
they gave it to me for that price.
what's so funny,
they took the car, were going to pull it from Town North because that's where the white one was.
Is that right.
they had already told me, We located one at Town North.
it was that same car.
My gosh.
unless you're selling car with hail damage and flood damage , I got the car off your lot for that price .
you laughed all the way to the bank.
I did.
I laughed real hard when I took it in for the two thousand mile checkup
that they required you to do.
I took it to Town North,
sure enough I saw that guy,
he recognized me.
He said, hi, Dana,
he kind of looked down and saw that car,
I'm sure he probably knew what was going on the very next day
of course, when the place in Arlington went and took the car
That's right.
because I told him there's a place in Arlington that's going to give it to me for that price.
He said, No they're not.
the next day they pulled the white car and took it to Arlington.
I'm sure he knew .
Such a deal.
I loved it.
I sat there,
I just had the biggest grin on my face.
I'll bet you did.
It was kind of nice.
Dana, it's been really interesting,
I appreciate talking with you.
Good talking to you too, Don.
have a good evening.
good luck in your car hunting.
Thank you much.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
what kind of hobbies do you have?
mostly what I do,
I some crafts like it mentioned in the thing,
read a lot.
I like to read, too .
I was trying to think of some it was, talking about it,
it took so long for someone to answer,
I started reading the
newspaper, and kind of forgot about it .
I'd say reading is probably one of my biggest ones, because it's the type of thing that do a little bit at a time, whereas, I would love to do crafts and stuff if I just had the time to do it
or if I had the space.
I live in a pretty small apartment,
I would have to, put stuff away.
I have two cats,
I couldn't really leave it out if I was working on something.
Reading is a little bit easier to work around.
you can pick it up and take it wherever you go.
That's right.
(( )) any (( )) space.
I get too involved in reading sometimes that I neglect what I should be doing.
That's true,
I do the same thing .
You get so involved in what you're reading.
What types of crafts do you do?
I do a little bit of woodworking,
I used to.
I don't have the equipment here.
We moved to Dallas about a year ago
my dad had a lot of woodworking equipment
I did some of that.
here I've mostly done things that I can do strictly by hand, sewing and quilting and,
what else have I done ?
Things to hang on the wall.
Mostly just stuff that I can, use right around the house
or give away as gifts.
I've been making a lot of quilts, not a lot, but several quilts lately.
I enjoy, sewing and needlework also.
made some small things, cross stitch things.
back when I was in high school, I worked at a needlework shop,
used to do the latch hook rugs and needlepoint and things like that,
still remember how to do it.
It's just been so long since I've actually sat down and taken the time to do something like that.
I have recently done some cross stitch.
I enjoy doing that.
It's just the same old thing,
it's just getting the time to do it .
I've done some stitch,
I never count right,
I always have to either take it out or have my picture slightly off centered
huh .
It never has worked out completely.
it takes a lot of concentration.
it was the type of thing,
making some little things for Christmas,
I also made a little thing for a baby gift,
I thought, I can do this while I watch T V.
Wrong .
you must pay all attention to what you're doing.
a lot more difficult than it seems like it would be.
It took me, quite a bit of time.
I though, this won't take long at all.
I was wrong.
a while to do.
it was fun,
I enjoyed it.
The first project I started out one was a big one,
of a lady
she was kneeling,
it was about fifteen by twenty maybe.
my gosh.
it was just too much to start with.
I still haven't finished it, because stopped,
I thought I better do some simple things and work up to this
because it was just so difficult
to get it done.
there were so many different shadings and colors,
it was just too much to begin with.
I think kind of discouraged me from doing much more with it.
That's pretty understandable.
I've done some of the crewel and
something similar to that
it doesn't have the specific stitches.
Anyway, it's a little bit more loose, and not quite as structured,
I like that a little bit better
the variety of stitches and stuff in that.
More like embroidery or something.
I'm trying to think of anything else I do as a hobby. I don't even watch T V very much.
I was tonight,
I was reading when you called.
How about movies,
do you like to go to movies?
like to go to movies,
I have a V C R,
I like to rent movies,
the movie channel,
I've recorded quite a few movies off of that.
just, I've kind of got a collection going of tapes now,
whenever I go visit my parents, they're always saying, bring some of your tapes .
They always borrow a few of them.
I was over there,
they live in Duncanville
I was over there at Easter,
they said, Bring some tapes with you.
they are always borrowing my tapes.
do, stuff with plants.
a lot of plants in my apartment,
I've got a pretty small porch,
I've got a few planters out there that
in the winter time I usually plant some pansies in there,
in the summer I'll plant petunias,
something that's colorful
that blooms a lot.
haven't done that yet.
I kept thinking that it was going to get cold one more time,
I think we're probably past that now.
I probably should go buy some.
I guess if I had a house I might enjoy gardening, some.
I'm not real crazy about pulling weeds and things like that.
it's the hard work.
I like the planting, and watering is okay.
It's so nice though when you have a nice yard full of flowers,
it's so beau ,
we don't.
We live in an apartment also.
I've got a few plants here,
I'm not really knowledgeable.
I feel real good if I water them
they continue to grow.
I feel like, I've accomplished something.
I enjoy it,
I'm just not experienced enough with
I don't know too much about it either.
Mine's pretty limited to my little, porch plants .
the ones in my apartment, half of which don't look real healthy,
I don't always get direct sun except in certain spots.
that's probably my problem there.
Have you tried fruits and vegetables or anything?
I guess vegetables are in pots and stuff?
I never have tried that, just because I don't have that much space on this little porch here in this apartment
or this little balcony.
my other two pots are,
pretty big,
I have enough plants in them that it takes up a lot of my porch area,
between that and the chairs and the barbecue grill and the fireplace wood,
there's no room for much else.
used to grow tomatoes and things at the house.
think when I was real little I probably had a finger in on that every time he did it
and had to be out there and watch and that type of stuff.
I've never really tried anything like that since then.
I considered it last year
this year both,
I haven't done anything about it.
I think it would be nice to just go out and pick some tomatoes off the porch.
We get lots of sunlight here,
the porch is screened in
it's pretty large.
I think if I just would be,
if I'd do something, be motivated enough to do something, I think it would work out well.
there goes that motivation thing again .
I enjoy playing with my cats.
I don't know if you'd call that a hobby,
I have two cats,
I gave them a bath tonight,
they're a little bit angry at me .
(( )) . Can you
They didn't like it too much.
can you put them right in the water?
that's good,
right in the tub,
it helps because its the time of the year that they're shedding a lot, and cleaning cat fur off the couch and off the floor is not a hobby of mine.
I thought,
this'll them shed,
sure enough, boy the fur just came off like crazy once I got them
in the tub.
they're pretty content now,
they were mad at me for quite a while.
They went and hid got dried off.
Sulked for a while, .
I like animals,
we don't have any yet.
We have a nine month old with another on the way
we thought, maybe when they're a little bit bigger
then we'll,
get into a house with a little more space.
I'd love to some animals.
I like dogs
my husband likes cats.
we haven't reached a real agreement on that yet.
If we get a place where we can have both, it'll be great,
until then,
I like both,
since I'm in an apartment, don't think an apartment is big enough for a dog.
need a yard, even little dogs.
They just need a yard.
Cats can deal with being inside all the time just fine.
I just think dogs to be outside, though.
I agree with you.
if we were going to get anything now it would definitely be a cat, or even a bird or a fish tank or something, .
now that's an idea
Something small
with the small babies.
that she can watch, but won't take too much care.
you kind of,
a cat, you never know when they might bite or scratch or something.
There not as likely to as a dog might, I guess.
with little ones, I'd be kind of scared , to get anything that has teeth or claws.
Especially when they're not quite to the age of understanding that they're hurting,
they grab hold with both hands and then just jerk.
if I was a cat or dog, I'd respond probably by biting or something.
I don't know.
yeah .
That'd be my self defense.
huh .
I think we probably reached our time limit.
I'm good ideas for a hobby anyway.
it was good talking to you.
Thank you for calling.
All right.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
do you have any pets?
I have three cats and a dog.
(( Sound )) like us,
we have,
go ahead.
we just got dog less than a year ago
he's still a puppy.
what kind is it?
He's a mixed breed,
he's part Collie, part Shepherd, and part Chow.
you (( )) ,
More Collie and Shepherd than Chow,
the only Chow he's got his tongue.
he's got a blue tongue?
He's got little spots on them.
We have two Chows and, , a miniature Schnauzer, and recently added, a guinea pig, , which wasn't by my choice,
I was out ruled,
the dogs are mainly mine and my husb ,
I just love them to death.
Was the guinea pig for your,
for your child?
as if the dogs weren't enough, had to have, a guinea pig,
anyway enjoys her though,
what matters.
our Chows, we've had them, I'd say, right around six maybe seven years
they're, registered
we've been breeding them.
She's had about four or five litters.
husband's always wanted a Chow
I'm kind of concerned about, having cats,
they socialize with cats. which is one of the reasons why we got a mixed breed.
we thought they would socialize easier,
my husband had originally wanted an (( ))
his brother has an (( ))
he, so far he's bitten ten people.
the people that he got the (( )) from, used to have cats
they no longer have any other cats.
It's telling, (( ))
when a cat when we first married, no, (( took )) ,
we had the cat first,
we got, the Chow.
, them in as puppies they got along just fabulous with her.
you would think, that they were all dogs the way she would (( prance )) around them paw at their face
they'd just play
harmed her.
they got along great,
I don't know it would be bringing in, cat to a grown dog.
I wouldn't want to bring a cat into a full grown dog,
wouldn't feel, hesitant about bringing a puppy in,
to adult cats,
I think they would socialize easier.
I think, so, too.
old is your child?
Five .
She's a real (( )) .
you had the dogs before you had the baby?
I was, , not really concerned about, them harming her,
a lot of that we hear all the time is how you bring them up.
ours are real friendly,
they're protective,
they're very friendly, and lovable,
you think they're lapdogs.
they'll just come jump on your lap and want to their bellies rubbed and everything
What color are they?
the female's red
the male is black.
I bet the black one's pretty.
a big old thing.
I was concerned about the female mainly,
as luck had it, she had puppies the same week my daughter was born,
it was kind of like, she had her babies and understood about,
About your baby.
I think that really helped my daughter, she's little has been playing with them
they let her tug their hair get on their back or whatever
grown up with them and loves them to death
they love her,
I think it's good for kids to grow up around pets,
I do, too.
long as they don't have any allergies to them or anything.
I think it really helps them to understand they go to other people's houses
they have pets,
I see so many times kids just,
they, mean to animals not really understanding that the animals have feelings.
that the other extreme,
terrified of them
I hate that,
they shouldn't be,
some maybe
our miniature Schnauzer, a little hyper thing and just prances around and jumps all over everybody acting silly,
a lot of kids are scared of that. (( which )) I understand because she is, a lot of movement and everything
when she calms down they're so scared of her
bothers me because she's the friendliest thing,
she wouldn't them at all
that's mainly people that have never had pets around their children,
it's a good idea to have them.
birds, too, like Cockatoos.
And parrots and,
ar ,
Cockatoos, are those the big ones?
The big white,
birds with orange crest on top.
We've had those,
those are neat,
Are they?
, and loud.
a lot louder than a dog,
a dog you can tell, stop barking, or whatever.
the birds, hard to keep them from squawking or whatever
they were neat, enjoyable animals to have.
we've thought about getting an aquarium,
for the cats,
I think the cats would really enjoy it,
with a lid, .
of course, ,
so far we just (( ))
starting up
thinking about getting a saltwater,
they're so, expensive to start up.
they are,
in your, (( )) the luck of keeping them alive,
through those first,
few days.
saltwater fish have so much more color
they're so, much more beautiful,
I know they are.
the freshwater tank's just,
really to me
most of them really aren't that pretty,
care much for them.
I don't blame you there,
I think the saltwater are a lot more attractive than,
I don't know,
those fish are just beautiful.
Just so,
you have a little bit of ocean with you or something .
Rather than just little fish.
I don't mind having,
(( Wren ))
my daughter had )) little goldfish,
a year or two ago
it finally died
that was neat,
she can't play with it,
you can just look at it.
you can't roll around and tussle around with it like you can a dog or a cat
dare have goldfish here because,
it would probably be in a small bowl
my cats would knock it over.
I have to be real careful about where I put things,
if the cats jump up on things and knock things over all the time,
They're always up supposed to be.
that's hard.
(( )) that's just like kids,
know that they're not supposed to do it,
they're going to do it anyway because they know they're not supposed to.
That's right
they're so, independent.
I love having them for that reason.
until we got the dog, it was real easy go to town for weekend or whatever,
it's like a major production,
trying to find somebody to take care of the dog while you're gone.
That's right,
that is hard.
we knew it,
we never even thought that about when we got the dog
we just saw him,
he's so, cute,
let's take him home.
the first weekend we had him
my husband went out of town, and left me the brand new puppy,
I had to work twelve hours that day,
I left the dog locked in the bedroom
I put paper all over the floor.
when I came home, I opened the door
there were chunks of carpet,
padding everything,
all over the place
he had tried to dig his way out from underneath the door,
I guess you didn't get your deposit back, did you?
I had the carpet fixed,
didn't even tell the apartment manager,
who got it.
Bless your heart.
was my first real experience a puppy
we had our family dog growing up I was eleven or twelve, I think, when we first got him,
I wasn't really involved in paper training,
and, teaching him commands and stuff
this was, to me, a whole new experience.
it is.
Only it wasn't like cats at all.
I wish it was.
I wish they were in that instinct.
they don't.
Our only problem with our Schnauzer, she's an indoor dog ,
most of the time ,
we found, she's right at a year
we finally got her, house trained and everything,
her only problem is trash.
If you do not pick the trash up, the container,
and put it on a table or chair or something, she'll knock it over,
I don't care how she is,
it's not like she's hungry,
it's just she wants to get into trouble.
My cats do that it.
If I through anything away that's any kind of meat or anything,
like that,
anything they think is good,
they'll get into the trash,
it doesn't matter where you put it and where you hide it,
tight you have the lid down on it,
they'll get into it.
I've come home many a days from work to find trash all over the kitchen floor.
I hate that.
the cat's just looking at me like, sorry.
you shouldn't have left it there.
I couldn't help myself.
I just hate that when she does that,
I just,
she knows it's wrong,
you'll walk in the door
she'll cower and go hide under the table.
knows she does wrong.
continues to do it,
the problem that we're having with our puppy right now he's not (( ))
he's actually not really a puppy anymore
he's like sixteen months old,
he's still chewing.
is he?
the last thing he chewed up was, when we ...
All set.
Do you want to start?
I can go ahead and start,
Sure, go ahead.
in Dallas there's definitely a crime problem,
I know it's, worse in the larger cities.
it's kind of a concern for me,
in fact, at the moment I'm thinking of possibly moving to a new apartment
I am single and female,
you definitely are going to worry about the location, and, accessibility of people to be able to break in.
I live on a third floor now,
real concerned that don't want to be on a first floor where you can have problems with things like that,
Do they have many buildings that have security there?
Some buildings do,
it depends on the location.
The area I live in right now, real good as far as crime rate is concerned
we don't have anything at all, no burglar alarms, no guards.
places do have guard gates that you have to get through, or electronic access gates and things like that.
went to Dallas, when I worked for T I in Abilene
I'm a little familiar with the city area, Forest Lane and, through that, the freeway.
it didn't seem like it was that congested in part.
to me where we live out here in the north east, there are a lot of buildings very close to each other,
the cities are very populated with tenement housing,
where there are more than one family in a house.
with the, people that are coming into the country from other countries, not knowing the language
going to the big cities.
It makes it very difficult.
It really does,
I've seen the same thing that you're talking about, much more crime than ever before.
Drugs of course, a big part of it I think.
I don't know,
a lot of younger people, into more violent crimes.
that's really sad,
you got young boys or girls, that at fourteen or twelve years old that are committing murders and, no remorse, what so ever.
There's a lot of that going on in Dallas, too.
it's really sad.
It is
I don't know if it's, the family, thing where they're not bonding anymore, where mothers are working all the time and,
the kids aren't getting the attention that they need, or the television.
really think that falling by the wayside with not incarcerating these people.
I agree.
I think that people are getting off too easy.
paroled too easily.
They're just getting, put on probation or something, because the prisons don't have enough room
lighter sentences,
some of those people, they don't deserve to be let loose.
they had,
in fact on the news last night we were watching this, man who lost his ten year old daughter.
He ran out to the store for a few minutes
he had left her home alone.
Sh , now ten years old,
she's old enough to be alone for a few minutes,
while he was gone, he had looking for a job and stopped at the store,
that's what it was.
someone who was in the neighborhood cleaning carpets, these two men, went in, raped the girl, murdered her,
my gosh.
and the whole bit.
one of the men got, I think it was seventeen years
the other one was in for, life imprisonment.
The one that was in for the seventeen years, actually served seven,
he's out.
that's terrible.
the man said, that, if it weren't for the fact that he would go to jail, that he would eliminate this person himself.
And then go to McDonalds and have a hamburger and not about it.
I think that what this is going to lead to is people will take things into their own hands.
that innocent people,
shouldn't say innocent, because if they commit a crime that they're in the same circumstances
the reasons that they're doing it compared to the reason someone else is in jail for it, it's like two different things.
Sometimes when you lose someone that you really love, you do some crazy things
yo ,
I don't know,
it's a little more understandable under the circumstances, I guess.
like the idea that, if someone is from a foreign country,
and they come to this country and commit, a crime, I think that irregardless of whether they have already become a citizen or anything, they should be immediately deported.
Especially if they're found guilty of the crime.
once have been arrested
if they know beyond a shadow of a doubt, these people are guilty.
That's it,
we don't take care of them,
we don't support them,
they go right back where they came from.
we have problems with overcrowding in the jails as it is.
their country take care of it.
We don't have, I guess too much trouble in Dallas with,
we do have a lot of people come in from Mexico, that cause problems,
they're, so close,
don't consider Mexican people in the same category with,
especially people who come from cultures that don't have the same, kind of moral upbringing that we have.
you take Asian countries, or, the Eastern countries where women are in the foreground,
in the background and the men are in the foreground,
it's like,
they live back in we came from two hundred years ago.
advanced beyond that,
I think that their, mentality as far as the way they treat them and that kind of thing,
you know what I mean.
It was amazing
I went to the Far East, back in October to do some training for T I
some of those countries were so safe, it was unreal.
Singapore is safe
in fact, Tokyo,
I thought Tokyo would be dangerous being such a huge large city with so many people,
the T I there, I said is there any area I should avoid.
the guy said let me ask another girl here
he turned and asked this girl, and said, can you think of any place where Dana shouldn't go by herself, or anything.
thought for a few minutes
she said, no.
he said is there any place you wouldn't go by yourself.
She said, no.
they said,
it is so safe there that you can leave your purse on the subway
somebody will turn it in
nothing will be missing.
They said they can just about guarantee that would happen if you did that.
I thought, boy, in America,
if you left a purse on a subway, you would never see it again.
You better believe it,
you wouldn't even have to leave it,
that's true,
it would get snatched right off your arm .
that's true.
I was thinking boy, in Dallas, if somebody asked me if there were places you wouldn't go by yourself at night, I'd have to set them down for about five or ten minutes to list all the places out.
I couldn't believe that she couldn't think of any place.
They said, crime, is, just,
That's amazing,
the difference there,
do you know?
I'm not sure what it is there.
I know what it is in Singapore, is they have the death penalty
they really enforce it,
believe in the death penalty,
I really do.
enforce the death penalty for that.
they're just, very, very tough,
I guess maybe that's the way Tokyo is too, or Japan is too.
They're just very tough on criminals.
I think that we're too easy.
we take civil liberties, stuff too far.
people that are in prison, we didn't put them there.
They put themselves in that situation.
as far as them, entertaining the rights that they should have.
we educate them,
we feed them,
we take care of them
they no sooner get out on the street and they're back in again.
I'm not saying they're all bad,
I think people who are guilty of really serious heinous crimes,
do not deserve to be cared for for the rest of their lives.
I think that they should be put away.
if they're overcrowded, ,
Get rid of them.
they shouldn't have gotten theirself there in the first place.
I, I think that that's the whole key here.
This plea bargaining baloney,
where, they plead to a lesser crime, or, they plead guilty or, tell about someone else and get less time,
if they're in there and they've got seventeen years and they're on good behavior, for every year they're in they get so many less, that they don't serve the full penalty.
I really think we're going to far overboard with all of this.
I agree, because it's not fair to those of us deserve a safe, life to have to,
(( same )) with drunk drivers.
I think it's too easy for them.
That if laws, were, were harsher and were enforced,
you have to set an example.
You have to start somewhere.
I think that people know that they're going to get a slap on the wrist, they might serve a little bit of time and that they'll be out on the street again.
I feel bad for the policeman,
because he's out there every day facing these people.
craziness, people with, automatic weapons and, all this other stuff and trying to do a job
let's face it,
what do they get paid.
not much.
Twenty thousand dollars a year, if they're lucky.
I wouldn't do it for that.
especially not in some of these big cities,
in Dallas they've had,
they're up in the five I think of cities that are getting policeman killed in the line of duty
that's really sad.
they're the first ones that take the brunt of everything.
I'm not saying that they're all good either, because there's good and bad in everything,
already, have against them when they're out there.
they'll arrest someone and, go through all that paperwork and writing a report and all this, and having all kinds of evidence
you have to even be careful how you arrest them, how you talk to them, what they say,
What, go ahead and tell me about your home .
my home at the moment is an apartment.
is that right? .
Yeah .
I work here in Germantown,
I live in Pensacola, Florida.
that's interesting.
I own a home in Pensacola,
let's see,
we are to compare homes. Correct?
my home typical for the area.
I live in a development, F
it's a relatively, I would say,
God, it I'm bragging .
that's okay .
it's upper middle class,
kind of an environment.
It's a two story colonial, which my wife and I designed.
that's neat.
it has around thirty two hundred square feet.
Wow, that's large .
five bedrooms and so forth and so on,
size and so forth, it's relatively typical for the area.
It might be,
I would say it's probably midsized for the area.
There are some smaller,
there are, larger.
based, in terms of, Pensacola, in that area of Florida what now,
it is, probably ten years old.
that's not too bad,
that's still fairly new.
in terms of cost and size and so forth, it,
the there is extremely affordable, compared to other parts of the country,
let's say compared to Maryland ,
that same house here would probably cost three quarters of a million dollars
you're kidding .
do you mind if I ask what it's worth down there,
what it's,
when we built it ten years ago, around a hundred and forty thousand dollars.
would have really, I haven't really priced, in the market,
sounds like,
from the way you described it a home like that here would be at least two hundred and fifty thousand .
Dallas is a very marked up area,
although right now it's a lot lower ,
because of all the layoffs and everything
the economy around here is real poor .
I thought that was on the upswing again now.
not really .
the area itself, the Fort Worth Dallas area, has become kind of depressed because there's been so many layoffs with big companies, including Texas Instruments .
there's been tremendous amounts layoffs
really housing is real bad.
The economy itself around here is not too terribly bad,
housing is still real bad .
huh .
Pensacola has
it's really is a buyer's market there now .
This is,
it isn't because of the,
there has been a lot of speculative building.
perhaps not in Dallas,
I'm sure people Galveston and so forth would be knowledgeable about it,
Pensacola is a Navy town.
home porting was a possibility a few years ago.
They were expecting an influx of something on the order of fifty thousand people or more from the Navy,
(( )) a new carrier was coming in and, the, attendant, support vessels.
that's no longer,
do you think,
the case.
it was overdeveloped then?
number of single family units on sale is phenomenal compared to the population.
i ,
overbuilding been a real problem there.
you can still good house for a very, very reasonable price.
good, I would,
let's say typical, say three bedroom, two and a half baths, on a half acre or so of land , reasonable construction would probably run you, right now a hundred and a hundred and forty thousand dollars.
And probably, perhaps,
cheaper, depending upon the neighborhood.
What about your home?
right now we're just renting,
it is a home.
it's a four bedroom home .
It has about, I guess, eighteen hundred square feet .
It's on one floor .
we have no basement .
I don't know,
Nor do we,
Okay .
I wasn't sure.
Most of the ones,
up north and everything do,
anyway, typical for the area.
Most of this area was developed,
this house was built in seventy four.
most of the,
it's almost twenty years old,
most of the houses around here were built pretty much the same style .
we have a friend that lives two blocks over,
his house is almost identical to us, except his is three bedrooms and ours is four
otherwise the layout is pretty much the same.
think most of them are
there was,
most areas that are built,
there were probably, two or three styles you could choose from .
that's pretty much all the houses in the area, for probably a square mile, I'd say, at least, maybe even a little bit more than that.
the housing here in Maryland is just atrocious. And the entire D C area.
only about, twelve miles or so from the, border of Washington D C, and Montgomery County,
Maryland is probably one of the most expensive,
Where are you in relation to Sevren?
places to,
are you close to Sevren?
we are west.
Sevren is east, near the eastern shore,
I just,
if I had,
I have a sister that used to live in Sevren.
they bought their home in want to say like around nineteen seventy five or something like that,
they paid like,
had it built from,
designed it and everything,
to have it built they only paid forty thousand for it,
when they left the area they sold it for a hundred and twenty thousand .
that's not unusual, yeah.
I just wondered, if the whole area was like that or,
. area over there is not as expensive as in immediate, Washington area.
was just looking,
for example there is a, condominium complex next to the apartment complex where I live,
I was over there recently looking at the possibility of buying a two bedroom condominium.
ninety two thousand dollars for a two bedroom, which is essentially a two bedroom apartment.
it was very nicely done.
(( I would have thought )) ,
Sounds like a lot of money though ,
I can't, I can't envision spending that much money, something along those lines.
the piper
the taxes around here are phenomenally,
for the,
you, on that ,
it's not unusual, for example, for somewhere around here on a,
described as your house and what I would describe as my house
say, for example, in Pensacola, Florida, on that house with the homestead exemption and so forth and so on, might pay three or four hundred dollars a year taxes.
May ,
maybe, maybe a little bit higher than that now,
that same house here, you'd pay almost six thousand dollars a year,
taxes on it.
Wow .
Wow, that's,
the question of whether to buy here or move to another county, say, drive twenty more miles north, buy a condominium for approximately, the same price, maybe a little lower,
the taxes would be, perhaps, maybe one third
That much of a difference?
really sad .
Yeah .
of the most highly taxed areas in the country.
Why is that?
Do you know?
the, their, they do have an extremely good, such things as extremely good school systems, for example.
It has one of the best school systems in the country.
huh .
the cost of living around here is so high,
public employees make great salaries around here .
Oh .
I was reading just recently where the typical administrator in the,
Montgomery County Public Schools makes,
I'm not,
this is, the figure,
he makes eighty thousand dollars a year.
My goodness .
Wow .
by administrator think I mean,
didn't, they did not define it,
for example, a curriculum supervisor or principal or someone, range.
what do you think about it?
most of the stuff up until now, in the recent months, I don't have any problem with.
I don't either.
I don't think it's going to change very much
I agree with that. far as the, as far as the mess that's developing as a result,
as a country, the United States,
I think our hands are tied
as far as any further involvement,
until the U N sanctions it.
In fact, it really was to begin with.
heard a comment on the radio this morning that, gets to a point where, if enough people going to be slaughtered over there over the internal problems, somebody may step in again.
I really think a U N issue,
at that point because it is internal.
the funny thing I find about American opinion is that when we have gone in to destabilize a government before, the American public goes crazy.
now the fact that we're not interfering with the internal rebellion Iraq, they're going crazy.
That's right,
that's right .
you can't please them one way or the other.
Absolutely right.
think that, agree with you,
this is exactly the right course.
that's an internal problem to Iraq.
It has nothing to do with us.
until he starts doing something so inhumane that the U N gets involved, then it's nobody's business.
That's right.
types of internal things go on all over the world all the time.
All the time.
Some of them have been going on tens of years,
I understand it right in places like the Sudan and,
been going on over there for hundreds of years.
it's going to continue.
That's right.
As long as you have so many diverse groups vying for power, it's going to happen all the time.
that's absolutely right.
the Kurds have tried it before.
They've gotten their butts kicked,
this is just another time that it's happening.
absolutely right.
they'll regroup out in the mountains
they'll try it again in a couple of years.
it's a very opportune moment for them to try.
I don't have any doubt that through some back channels we encouraged it.
I'm not real sure that we promised them anything.
that would have been stupid,
I don't think we did it.
Everything else we handled in this seemed to be perfectly right.
I don't think they would have done that.
I agree.
it really doesn't make any difference.
This is just another chapter in Middle Eastern history.
are many of them.
There's no doubt about it.
British occupied the place,
the French occupied it,
we've done it.
happened so many times,
really nothing special.
conflicts, really don't have a basis politics human rights or anything like that.
That's right,
religious anyway.
It's, it's religious based
self proclamation this is a holy war
it is right.
go on from there
it's a mess.
there's no doubt about it,
I think one of the big problems,
looking at it from public's standpoints, they don't understand the Middle Easterners.
That's right.
They don't understand what,
their politics really isn't politics.
It's religion couched as politics.
there's a big difference.
we sit there
we think that they think the way we think.
that's a big mistake,
You bet.
because they don't.
You bet.
there's, there's a complete different set of values.
different value placed on human life,
right down the list, possessions everything else.
what's right is wrong and what's wrong is right in some cases.
it a lot of the time.
was stationed Turkey a year and a half.
was tough,
Yeah .
those folks.
they're, they're so completely different culturally and socially and
and religiously,
very strange.
I believe it.
It was very interesting.
I can believe that.
don't claim to have an in depth understanding by any means,
shoot, think some of these people that they claim as Middle Eastern experts have a clue sometimes.
That's probably true,
that's probably true.
sit there read their books and then proclaim themselves an expert.
I'm not real sure appropriate.
little bit of background study has never made an expert in any field.
I sort,
that sort of goes to my pet peeve about the education system in this country, too.
we make experts by reading books.
That's right.
the Japanese and the Germans and everybody else make experts by doing.
I guess you work for T I.
That's right, yes.
you guys are well aware of the problems with the Japanese markets and everything else.
that's an everyday occurrence.
like our car industry,
the only reason our car industry hasn't gone down the tubes is because the Japanese, came into it and helped,
us out.
I agree.
there, there is, there is, it's an overall problem in this country understanding, foreign cultures,
or even accepting them.
it bites us over and over
start changing our educational system, going to be,
already been overtaken,
it's going to get even worse later.
getting the engineering degrees and the, the math and the science and everything.
That's right.
It's not us.
That's right.
got folks running around here degrees in basket weaving and
underwater psychology,
or ridiculous stuff like that.
where are the engineers coming from?
coming from various places,
a lot of them are going back there.
That's ,
roommate is a,
he's getting his doctorate in industrial,
it's not industrial engineering,
it's human factors.
His degree was in, industrial engineering.
I see.
he's from the Philippines.
the only reason he came here was because the education is so much better for those who will go after it.
He has no intention of going back to the Philippines because there's no jobs.
see it all too often.
we've got loads of foreign students
they're coming here, going after the hard degrees
they're going back to Korea and Japan,
and Hong Kong and everywhere else
they're applying it there.
That's right.
I don't know,
I don't know what we're going to do as a country.
going to become dependent on these other folks sooner or later.
country's got a problem quarterly reports and annual statements and things like that.
the views just kind of, become a thing of the past.
think there can be anymore long range planning.
I think it's sticking your finger in the holes in the dike.
a crisis.
let's plug it up.
I don't know.
I don't know what the answer is.
It's far beyond me.
that's for sure.
the way things have gotten.
all we can do is keep plugging.
read in the paper just last week, I B M's unveiling their new laptop computer.
at a price tag of six thousand bucks, I don't know if they're going to have a whole lot of takers.
Be ,
now have the I B M, P S two
I'm sorry I got it.
It's slow,
many better machines on the market right now
for a,
the only reason I got it is because I got it through an educational purchase plan
through the school
I saved forty eight percent,
I said, if I can have an I B M for forty eight percent discount, I'll take it.
up to that point said I would never have one because I wouldn't pay that kind of money for their name.
That's right.
That's absolutely right,
now you watch,
just sure as anything, the Japanese are going to come out with a laptop at half the price
with more stuff on it.
unfortunately high tech market goes, by the time you can something in your hands,
It's already outdated.
it's obsolete,
we fight that battle every day here at work,
can imagine.
had a T I ninety nine.
Put all the money into the expansion box and all this, that and the other
things just kept changing so much
I kept getting rid of them,
I finally said, you can't do this .
That's right.
You've got to buy something and stick with it,
That's right.
I just,
at an opportune time I got one suited my needs
I've just stuck with it.
The only thing I've done to it is just mouse and a hard drive.
that's all I plan to do.
Of course, I'm limited on memory now because I've got the low line.
I got the model twenty five.
I'm stuck with six forty,
I'm not a power user
it doesn't matter.
that's the key, works for you.
if it does the job, then what you need.
my roomie, on the other hand, he is a power user.
looking now to get rid of his.
He's got a three eighty six and wants to get a four eighty six.
this kind of stuff.
on this subject of invasion of privacy, yes, it's very easy for anybody to find out about you.
I don't really like that very much.
the special on channel thirteen that was broadcast, I think, last week or so ago, it detailed how this one person went about finding out his home mortgage, how much he pays for it, what his payments are, his, Social Security number, driver's license, any kind of records he may have. their credit card and the status of their credit.
What was the reason why somebody was trying to find out all that stuff?
It was just as a demonstration to show
those who were watching it how easily obtainable information is on any single person.
it was,
mostly it dealt with, marketing companies, these, direct marketing,
That was the primary subject.
That's how they obtain information about segments of society and group them into age brackets, their habits, their hobbies, their income.
they're able to do that through all the manipulations of the computer.
not really good.
I don't know,
I guess that's an invasion of privacy.
I'm not sure that that's an everyday thing, though, at least not for, an individual.
Something that I feel pretty much an invasion of privacy is something that's really so common that it's accepted as the norm now, is office concept.
The open office?
where they have little partition dividers,
throughout large room
people have little cubicles.
that's all fine and good,
you don't really have any privacy at all.
Not insofar as maybe making conversation with somebody, I suppose, because can easily be
they get,
I suppose any items that you have laying out can be easily seen.
just that,
it's, the whole thing about, you're trying to concentrate, it's rather hard,
sometimes it's almost impossible to do
because, , you're space not your own space.
I work in a situation like that
really kind of have a problem with that.
Do you work with, mixed company, male and female
Is there anybody who doesn't?
there are a few out there.
depends on who you're working for and where at.
my own environment is open totally.
There are no cubicles.
There's nothing to block anything.
I guess we're changing ever so rapidly in the devices of communications that anything can be obtained from anybody's record,
the computers, big advent of that, I believe, because can all hold such large data bases on anybody that all you have to do is touch a button
it appears
in front of them,
you don't have to,
know the government sells information to private companies about individuals or families.
That's no secret,
it shouldn't be that way I don't think.
think quite right either.
it's not really government for the people and by the people,
I'll tell you that.
what do you think could be done about it?
the only way it can change is, everybody bands together.
It's just like we need to get rid of these clowns that's serving in the office.
The only thing really that can be changed is for say, we've had enough of you, out you go.
I don't see anything like that to occur unless everybody bands together to do that.
It has to be one common ideal goal for that to be done.
I don't know,
still free, I suppose, country insofar as able to obtain information.
I wouldn't be for total banning of, all information
it's mostly the private information that we're all concerned about.
hard to define
a lot of those boundaries.
It really is.
I've just had dealing with is a credit bureau.
my name, which is a very common name,
my last name is even more common
check that name against, their list
they find several.
without even bothering to try to match up any other information at all, they just report everything under that name.
you've received a lot of, flack?
even check my Social Security number.
companies are paying them good money to report accurately,
they're not,
they're so lazy.
They're just not doing it.
they just find your name
they match it up.
that just drives me crazy because they're,
they want,
then, to get it removed they say, you have to long detailed letter and everything like that to them,
it takes three weeks (( and all )) .
I'm like, baloney.
You messed it up,
you fix it.
Is that usually what you tell them in the letter?
what I've taken to doing lately is calling the company that they report
recently I was reported as having J C Penney accounts
I don't.
I called J C Penney
I said, I just wanted to let you know that the credit agency you're using is incorrectly reporting the information that you're providing to them.
they say, huh, because they really don't want to pay for a service that's not being done properly either.
then they can call the credit bureau and say, hey, we're paying you good money to report this properly
you're not doing your job.
Good idea.
that's what I've taken to doing lately,
it seems to work pretty well so far.
that's good.
any other problems?
Not that I can think of.
guess I've just about run out of,
Yeah .
can probably go on,
I'm clouding up right now.
I probably better let you get back to work.
it's nice talking to you.
Maybe again.
All rightie.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
I don't know what last thing I've done as far as car repairs go change oil and filter that kind of stuff.
I haven't gotten really involved in anything, extensive in car repairs in, probably a year or so.
I think the last thing I did of any significance was change the water pump on an Oldsmobile.
I had a similar thing, that I've worked on cars ever since I was, a kid .
that was some time ago,
I've gotten to the point where, the newer cars are getting so complicated to work on that, most of the cars
as simple a car as possible.
I know what you mean.
changing the oil, changing the spark plugs
most of them now, you don't go through the ignition stuff anymore because that's all solid state or,
or fuel injected,
or fuel injected
there goes the carburetor
if the fuel injection system breaks down,
there's no way in the world you're going to work on that.
there's no way.
Somebody once said, I had a car that said fuel injection on the side of it
a woman asked me what that meant
I said that means that I can't work on it.
basically that's it.
they've gotten so complicated or so high tech that, can't really go out garage and do a whole lot of repairs,
I've got, an eighty four Chevy van that's, a one ton van with a camper conversion on it.
It's got the good old three fifty,
standard engine in it.
Regular gas engine,
that engine I understand,
on that engine.
I used to have, van,
it was a short van,
that had three fifty in it.
basically was a motor
you didn't have all the other junk around it,
you could get to it to work on it.
I had to change the water pump in that, here about a year ago.
it was really fairly easy.
Take the grill out and the radiator out
you can just stand there and work on it.
the hardest part about, water pump changes is getting all the junk off, before you can get too it.
that's true .
You're right,
by the time you've finally got down to it,
I was hoping I could remember where all those other things went.
that's kind of the way I was,
I tried to remember as I took stuff off where it went,
I don't think I had too many nuts and bolts left over when I got it all put back together.
A few years ago I had an Oldsmobile diesel
after about a hundred thousand miles the injector pump went out on it.
I bought it when we were living in Lubbock,
when I came back here, I brought the car back here
I don't know, diesels got pretty unpopular
you couldn't sell the thi ,
though for what you could get for one,
you might as well drive it over a cliff.
the injector pump went bad
I found a outfit down here to rebuild it.
And, reinstalled that
that was probably one of the most miserable things I had gotten into in a long time.
I don't think I'd know where to start with a diesel.
diesels don't require mechanics,
they require plumbers.
that's true.
I think the thing I've come a diesel is, I've worked for a tractor repair shop, when I was in high school
we used to overhaul farm tractors basically,
they were nearly diesel,
as far as cars I've never, never been involved with them.
the injector nozzle and stuff in, the big diesel farm tractors, are about the size of your thumb,
the ,
get to them.
you can get to them,
the ones the diesel cars were little tiny things and just almost impossible to do anything with.
I've had a lot of good service out of that car,
I finally gave it to my son
he drove it literally into the ground, .
He was out at Tech
finished it off.
guess you're right
diesel has almost fallen into unpopular status.
I don't know exactly why.
One of the reasons is
beginning to wonder where do you get gas at.
I su ,
I don't know if it's still, limited like it was,
I don't notice it, probably because I don ,
the availability?
You mean the diesel availability?
maybe because I'm not looking for it.
I'd bought, a G M C diesel pickup and, loved that thing,
I really liked it.
it turns out a pickup wasn't what I really needed,
it was the van that I needed then, to buy the,
traded it in on the Chevy van.
sure enjoyed it.
got three fifty in the van?
the three fifty regular gas engine.
that's what I like because, they've got plenty of power,
if you treat them right, they're not the gas guzzlers I think that they've got the reputation to be.
I'm convinced that, Detroit or whoever it is made a major mistake,
co ,
years ago when they stopped putting the small V eights in and went to the fours and some of the sixes.
I'm convinced that the small V eight like Mustang's original two eighty nine or some of the Chevy two eighty threes,
were good little V eight engines that were not gas guzzlers
they had enough power t , pull all this weight.
the four cylinders just don't have it.
I think Chevy V eight when it started out I think was two sixty five, something like that.
Little, not whole lot more than the six cylinder that I think was like about two thirty five or so.
they kept boring that block out to where you could a get a that was, the same block, kept boring it out and boring it out and stroking it a little bit more, an.
I think V eights could have been made to be pretty powerful little engines, if they would have gone with it,
a short stroke engine it could really wind up.
The two little cars I've got now,
bought a Mitsubishi Mirage here a couple of years ago
it was normally carbureted
it's fairly easy to work with because there's not just a whole lot in it to go wrong,
that's kind of like,
changing the plugs and stuff.
first, my first car was a fifty six Mustang
over the years, all
I had a, Dodge pickup several years ago,
I can't remember the size of the engine
it was a three seven or something like that,
I remember working on those cars,
you'd open the hood
there was basically nothing in there but an engine,
and a few things.
Now, you open the hood and it's scary.
Like you say it takes a plumber to figure out where all this stuff goes.
The friend of ours over here, he's got, sixty five, or sixty six Mustang the six cylinder.
I was look under the hood of that the other day
like you say, you can see the road.
It's amazing.
if you had to you could climb up in there and do what you needed to.
stand in there if you really wanted to, I guess.
My dad's got a new,
I guess it's an eighty nine or ninety, Chrysler something or other.
It's one of those transverse mounted V sixes, front wheel drive.
he was showing it to me
we're looking under the hood and everything's nice and clean
you can see the three spark plugs there in the front.
I said where are the other three.
he'd never really thought about it.
he says hopefully I won't have to change them, before I trade it off.
it's going to be a problem getting back there because it was shoved right up against the fire wall.
they just about complicated the things so much that shade tree mechanics can't do much with them.
when they went to the,
started with the newer engines,
when they started putting all that pollution control stuff on the older engines is where they started getting into so much, trouble. Because the three fifty with all the,
actually, I guess, her ,
within a couple of years ago anyway was the last I've paid any attention to it.
The three oh five was
V eight that they put in three quarter half ton van.
it had all the air pump and,
the anti smog pumps.
all the anti smog stuff.
boy that was, really a mess back under there in that van.
all that stuff loads the motor down.
it's trying to push the weight plus have all this drain on it from all sorts of belts and things.
that's one good thing
I've got a, eight ninety, Chevy Blazer now
it's got one, belt on it a serpentine belt.
it's that one that's about, what an inch and a half wide.
Got a bunch of groves in it.
I haven't had to replace the thing yet.
It looks like it would be, better than having,
I've got an, an Olds Toronado that, I think's got six belts on the sucker.
I had to get all those off, when I was replace that, water pump.
I had to struggle with that for a while to figure which belt goes where.
it's kind of like the inside dual on a truck.
when one of them breaks,
it's not the outside one,
it's usually that power steering be ,
something that's way back in there.
You bet,
everything else's got to come off first.
Everything's got to come off.
it's a pleasure meeting you.
how many times have you done this now?
Is this,
I've got, five stickers here from T I,
I guess I've done probably, I'd say seven or eight of them.
I gotten any calls here in the last,
this is the first one in a week or so.
I haven't gotten any calls in two weeks,
I don't know, it's tapering off, or what.
If it's winding down or what.
I had a difficult time the past couple of times of getting, answers.
Finding a taker.
it sounds,
it's taken them minutes at a time,
people are either not,
no ,
maybe they're burnt out or,
let you go.
Thanks for talking.
all right.
Bye bye.
do you do a lot of cooking in your family?
I do some every now and then,
my wife's home during the day
she usually ends up doing most of it.
When I was single we used to always cook, around the house.
you like to cook.
I really like it,
there's a few dishes,
grew up with having Polish and Ukrainian food.
my wife, she likes Italian and stuff,
definitely have different tastes,
that's neat though, because you get to have different stuff .
a pretty bad cook .
I'm pretty bad.
My husband is really good,
he put himself through college working in restaurants.
he's much better cook than I am,
when I was home I still cooked a lot
I was in to a lot of vegetarian stuff.
now, I went back to work about a year and a half ago
one of the things that he took over was the cooking
the kids are thrilled,
they're really happy, that I don't cook anymore.
they're like, preferring it now, right .
they say oh dad, let dad cook mom,
let him do it
. have kids?
You obviously have one.
you have two.
one is, nine months
the other is two and a half.
Two and half,
that's the hard part is cooking with, kids around
I was just going to say, makes a difference in what you eat doesn't it .
are you not at that stage yet?
it does .
We try our hardest to get them to eat what we, eat,
my sister, she's the master of the fast order grill,
six different meals,
my gosh.
Like to have one thing,
one likes chicken nuggets, the other one like hot dogs,
my gosh,
I couldn't .
she makes noodles
sauce or whatever,
all things.
Boy, I couldn't do that,
I ,
our favorite,
let me think,
I was thinking of the one recipe we made.
I guess the thing that always turned out the best for us was something we thought looked really fancy but was real easy,
that was,
What's that.
it has a French name,
it basically means that it has a Swiss cheese, cream sauce with it
you pour it over rice,
that, Saint Jack or something.
Scallops Saint something,
yeah, (( )) .
I can't even remember what the recipe's name is anymore,
was basically just ground up Swiss cheese and then, standard cream sauce base and then,
with scallops.
the scallops.
it sounds sort of funny
it tastes really good.
I'm from New England,
had, a lot of seafood before we moved down here.
that sounds delicious to me.
That sounds great.
of having, a, dinner party.
We went to this dinner party the other night that was kind of like a game,
they had, a murder mystery,
you came dressed as one of the characters
you had to solve the mystery during the dinner,
it was really fun
we were going to try doing it ourselves,
we're trying to decide what can we serve because at this one the hostess was pretty busy running around trying to get stuff ready for the table
that kind of interrupted the game,
I was thinking there's this Beef Bourguignonne recipe that I've tried before that's pretty good
you can make that ahead
you can just leave it in the pot on a stove until you're ready.
that's another thing
I have a problem with my wife,
she doesn't like the beef dishes.
She likes the chicken and fish,
like I said, we always ate beef and, pork,
a lot,
I know,
my husband did too .
His parents are Austrian
they, always made sure they had a lot of meat at the table .
red meat, plenty of good red meat.
My dad could eat, meal with out any vegetables at all.
my gosh.
Susan's, they had, meatless meals,
My dad wouldn't know what to do.
do you,
Course, she grew up Catholic
they did the,
they sort of come with the,
there's a certain amount of meatless meals you have to have .
That you do,
that's just part of it.
when I got into the vegetarian cooking we got kind of used to that,
my husband always did it kind of grudgingly,
he never,
There was dishes that he really enjoyed, eating.
were several things that he liked
it never was really, something that he would have chosen.
It's just that I cooked
he had to put up with it .
there was one thing that he couldn't stand
that was soybeans.
I tried it like once or twice
he just could not eat it,
I never,
I had,
I was limited.
I had to make vegetarian meals without using soy beans,
it's hard to get a protein content up then .
That's true .
them every now and then for a change,
it's nice.
some of the stuff is good,
was a tremendous amount of cooking .
you do have to make sure you have the right combinations of different proteins to make sure they're complete,
we had little kids at the time,
when I was home with them, and was just so much cooking,
like to cook.
I'm not really that great at it
it just turned out to be too much cooking.
I guess I'll let you get back to feeding your little one there.
he's all done.
He's set,
I set him down.
Do you like to bake at all,
get into
we used to do that,
my mom, used to go crazy, every Sunday, until my dad like blew up, .
Yeah .
he gained about eighty pounds after coming back from the Navy, she stopped doing it.
she used to have, two dozen sticky buns, three bread rolls, every week.
no kidding.
the sticky buns, of course, would last, three or four days
that would be it.
then be gone.
I know,
that's the thing about baking.
I don't mind baking at all
can do a pretty good pie,
we have this pie crust recipe in our family that my grandmother gave my mother
my mother taught me how to make it.
I can make a pretty mean pie,
I don't do it anymore because it's just too fattening.
We had the same kind of problem.
If you make homemade bread,
huh .
it's supposed to save you money
you eat like three times the amount of bread that you usually eat .
It tastes so good.
that bread that was,
you ever seen starter bread,
I can't remember what it's called,
they call it the, Amish bread here
it's made with,
you just it out,
you let it spoil sort of.
I've never done it.
That sounds pretty good.
it tasted pretty good, really.
it's the sort of thing where you let a portion of it go bad
you add all these other ingredients to it,
the bread
you pinch off a portion, or save a portion of it for the next time, or something.
take some of the batter out and give it to someone else
that's how they continue the thing.
I know,
I don't know how safe that was .
I know it sounded strange to me too,
I figure, you're baking it
that's true,
got to kill anything I guess,
I'll talk to you later.
All right,
Where are you calling from by the way, Texas.
Plano, in Texas.
Are you in Texas?
Falls Church, Virginia.
No kidding,
gosh it sounds so close.
I know we've got a good connection,
must be a, T I connection,
you were in Dallas or something.
talked to so many people from Texas
that's where practically everybody I talked to is from.
I think that's why they call me because they want to get people outside the state,
to get all different amount of people.
gee, my husband is from Richmond
I went to U V A,
that's where we went.
West Virginia University,
you did,
I grew up right here in Falls Church, right outside D C.
boy we'd like to get back over to the East Coast,
I'll tell you.
It's nice over there.
it's sort of funny,
I have people that want to go to Dallas.
friends here, he was just talking how he's thinking of leaving the company and going to Dallas,
saying how,
no kidding.
things are doing pretty good down here,
we tried to move over to Raleigh last year
going on in Raleigh,
you couldn't get a job to save yourself over there
we decided we'll try in a couple of years,
business is,
We were saying we could sell our house here and buy one down there cash,
Northern Virginia.
it's good talking to you.
Nice talking to you too.
Take care.
Bye, bye,
know what you think about the, subject,
never really thought of what they said before about allowing sentencing go to the judge instead of the jury and allowing him to do that.
I've been kind of sitting here thinking about that a little bit while I was waiting for them to phone somebody,
I don't know that that's not a good idea.
That's not a bad idea
they probably, need to change it somehow,
the whole system needs changing,
we've just got too many people (( in there )) ,
I agree.
and, (( )) , are putting too many, people in jail that probably don't need to be there
it's another form of sentencing.
on that one thing, still think it should be a unanimous decision,
I agree.
I think we're getting to the point now where they're going to eventually let it be, majority vote.
that's not going to be good.
I don't like that,
I don't like that at all.
I know my husband served jury a few months ago up here in Denton,
it was a drug conviction
I don't remember
he had some cocaine and was accused of selling it,
I don't remember exactly how much he had
not selling (( it )) ,
there's a difference,
(( couriering )) it is what,
ther , is supposedly a difference from selling then being a courier
he was a courier.
he sat on that jury
they found him guilty,
they went through the sentencing phase and everything
they were told that, during the trial that this is this guy's first offense
he's got this clean record,
they ended up,
the jury, decided, it's time to crackdown here,
it was time to do this drug thing
let's crackdown
let's really,
they sentenced him to fifteen years,
which that a good thing.
they sentencing him to fifteen years
after it was all over, sit down with the judge and with the other two lawyers
they were told that, he would probably serve three,
of the fifteen,
and that he had three previous convictions.
However, they could not tell that during the trial because all three of them were in appeal.
the jury didn't know about it,
here they based their sentencing thinking that this was this guy's first offense,
(( Sure )) .
we'll give him fifteen which will teach him a lesson
it's horrible,
(( Yeah )) .
since it was first offense
he'd been convicted three times before,
(( Oh )) .
the jury was very upset
my husband came very upset,
he felt they had been tricked,
I wonder if a judge didn't have control of that if some of that would change,
the judge might know
at least wouldn't hurt to switch over there and see if it worked any better,
if it didn't we can come back for something else
That's true.
That's very true.
what we've got,
we definitely need a change in the system
obviously what we are doing is not working,
It's not working, (( too )) .
It's just piling up on us.
people in (( our )) prisons that are not being rehabilitated in any way, shape, or form,
either they're in there,
forever or when they get out a matter of a few months
they're going to be right back for the same thing
the system,
We're just the time or the money to do what it takes,
That's very true.
I was talking to a friend of mine about this the other day
I said, I understand that there are a lot of countries that rely on the United States, to
the, the people in those countries rely on our money to survive
I really believe that we need to take care of ourselves,
the ,
I know people say, it would be cruel to, pull our aid from these other countries
maybe so,
tell them, you've got five years.
To work out a plan, to make it on your own.
we will continue funding you for the next two years,
after two years we'll cut it down seventy five percent.
after another year we'll cut it fifty percent,
in five years, it sh ,
by then you have a plan worked where you can make it on your own without our help.
we will have the money if we would do that to,
to work on your own system because we've got some serious problems here
we're trying to,
Very serious, yeah.
heal the world,
it's just not,
(( yeah )) ,
it's just not working.
(( your right )) , (( )) .
the (( aid )) presented to the Kurds
feel sorry for them
I know they're suffering
I know they're dying everyday,
we've got, kids here in the United States that are dying everyday, too.
and being,
(( Oh )) .
abused and neglected
I don't know.
I just have this problem with,
(( You bet )) .
trying to heal the world when you're so sick yourself,
we seem to agree on the jury thing
(( )) , we'll need an unanimous verdict
maybe let the judge have a opportunity to make, (( a decision )) .
I think we should try it, like you say,
if it doesn't work, we can always come back,
I think it would be a good idea to try it.
I do too.
we all agree.
Good to hear from you.
You too, bye bye.
Bye bye.
I own P C A T at my home.
I could never justify owning a personal computer at home,
that's quite an expense to look for,
who is this,
what do you use yours at home for?
that's actually a good question.
My wife works out of
She has an office
in fact she sits in the office
she uses it to compose and print out letters.
that's a very regular use of it that she has.
in addition to that I tinker around with it.
I'm a computer scientist.
I write programs to do little things
I'm actually working on a data base at home just to keep track of things nothing special.
also I'm interested in writing some programs that will kind of remind me of things like remind me that Wednesdays is trash day and the like.
Years ago T I sent me to their, computer school down in Austin.
I learned to repair one
I never really learned to operate one.
that's a key thing.
that's a,
there's really two issues to that that there's so many software packages available today.
That just require no programming.
that yo ,
in other words when someone built that software packet they had to use the programming
if they were careful, they could make the use of it totally without understanding how the computer works.
I think you you really hit the nail on the head.
For the average person is exactly what he can use it for.
if your wife isn't working out of the home and sending letters
if you don't want to build a data base to keep track of the nuts and bolts in your garage,
space is a handicap with me,
I live in a motor home.
I see
I'm preparing for retirement.
I see
congratulations on that.
I'm not to far from it another year and a half.
actually one other thing I might ought to mention is that they are actually getting quite cheap.
just like the computers.
remember how they started out running three, four hundred dollars.
the calculators you mean.
I beg your pardon.
they sure do.
I actually was thinking about upgrading mine very recently and kind of look at the whole spectrum.
You can actually buy a whole brand new computer necessarily a slow one or inadequate one but a pretty good one for six hundred dollars.
You're kidding.
Including a printer?
I wasn't including a printer,
can buy a printer now for a hundred dollars
make it seven hundred.
A hundred?
Wholly smoke,
a respectable one?
of not being particularly interested I don't keep track of prices on them,
that does amaze me.
the prices had plummeted,
you can buy just the guts with the power supply,
the box and the mother board of a type of computer called an eighty, eighty eight, for about two hundred dollars.
the keyboard is another fifty,
the monitor with the card that drives is another hundred
the disk drive is two fifty.
is good brand a inexpensive.
the deal is you're not buying brands now,
you're buying these knock offs,
probably the way to do it if you really wanted to buy one is there's a magazine called COMPUTER SHOPPER.
It's a big magazine,
it's twelve inches the narrow side and
seventeen inches the tall side
it's probably an inch thick a thousand pages.
full of these houses
they're all competing with each.
you just flip through there until you find a eighty, eighty eight computer
it's the original P C.
we call compatible.
forty dollars and the card that drives the monitor that goes in the back of the board for twenty five dollars which is amazing to me.
you mix and match
you do it by mail order.
there's no real brands
it's probably a half a dozen companies around the world that are making those mother boards, the main computer, the circuit board.
I see.
How do you go about getting one of those a catalogs?
They're available in, the B Daltons, type of thing.
You'll notice it's a, although it's a magazine it's large.
like I said it's about an inch thick .
getting back to the P C s,
I'll tell you,
I ya,
first of all I don't like a machine that's smarter than me.
And secondly, I did learn this much about computers,
are pretty stupid because they add one and one up and come up with ten.
In binary.
That's right .
There's great.
anyway that's one ever my favorite jokes.
yeah .
One and one equals ten.
that's great.
Course kind of an inside joke,
You can only tell that to somebody who understands binary.
I understand,
that's great,
that's a good joke.
do you, work with a computers at T I?
I did for years
I was a scientist over in central research labs
just recently I've changed my job to actually do some of the marketing.
now type that one,
I don't use it anymore.
I just recently started using one.
In connection with my work.
I keep track of an inventory here.
of course now that is where a computer is very handy.
I agree.
my responsibility to see that equipment is sent off to be calibrated.
I'm with the Q R A lab.
I see
that's fascinating.
Qualification and evaluation
naturally our equipment has to be in top condition and is constantly calibrated,
they're dated.
I have to keep up with them,
it's very handy doing it on the computer.
I just run a printout every week
it puts me right up to date what I have to ship, what I should be expecting to be returned.
is handy.
I must admit that up until I did start using one, I had very little interest in computers.
Yes .
they are amazing.
they certainly are.
I guess with respect to the question,
I guess we've kind of covered it.
I think we did.
nice little conversation with you Jack.
Mike you take care now.
Good day.
Good luck to you.
Thank you.
Same to you.
I guess I've had to return something
mostly it's been because I didn't like the color,
I'm not sure whether I've had to return that many things,
I'm having a problem right now with a computer that we've just returned.
are you?
for me it's actually a pretty good topic.
we'll talk about that some.
we could talk about that,
we could talk a bit about, just quality of products in general,
if better or worse like if they last longer or something like that.
I'm going to let you kind of lead the pack,
because you sound like you're,
I ,
let me tell you just a little bit about myself.
did all that shopping and whatnot,
for the last four or five years I've had eye problem,
I've had two cornea transplants.
Shopping is no fun anymore .
I can imagine.
I don't,
I can't see good enough,
it's hard to tell what I'm doing,
it's just aggrav ,
You can't read labels
you can't,
I just thought of something we have to return .
There you go.
All right.
come to us,
okay? .
Are you ready?
Laurie, all right .
All right,
tell me about your computer, Laurie,
I think that sounds fascinating.
we bought a computer because my husband needed to use it to do some work for a consulting project,
we called up the company and asked them details on it.
We bought not a name brand because the clones are so much cheaper.
we called up the company that somebody else we knew had dealt with,
they were very happy with the system,
they felt they've gotten a good price.
we went in,
we explained what we needed
(( yes ))
we had to go across the George Washington Bridge to New Jersey these people.
we went there,
we told them about the stuff
the guy said, that the computer would fit our needs.
we ,
these things won't make any sense to you probably
he told us
we need user positions to put our own equipment in the computer.
it's called a user boards
slots is what it's called.
he told us there's four sixteen bit slots and two eight bit slots available for the user,
we can put full size cards in there.
we said, great,
we'll buy it,
we put in our order.
a week later we went back and picked up the computer.
we got it home and tried to put our own board in it
there's only one slot we could put it in.
at this point we only have one board
it wasn't so bad
we used it a bit,
we tried to figure out whether we could put three in because we really need to be able to put at least three in.
(( no )) ,
the computer was supposed to have two.
it has them
the problem is that you can't put the type of card that we need to put in it, in it.
I see.
even though they told us in advance that you could,
they told us there would be no problem because,
I see.
the salesman just doesn't really know.
In some ways it has more to do with the people who sold it.
They probably didn't know what they were talking about.
That's completely it.
The salesman didn't know.
we went back in,
we struck an agreement with the people
(( who said )) change the casing it comes in so that we could put in extra boards.
they did that.
we said are you sure this will work,
we don't want you to go through the work and then find out that this doesn't really work anyway, and et cetera,
doing it at their own costs.
we said, fine.
we went back
we talked to the (( )) person a second time and things like that,
the computer home,
my husband goes to pick it up last week
we couldn't go get it sooner because I just had the baby,
life's just a little bit complicated.
(( huh )) .
he goes and gets it, brings it home,
first of all they're missing components of it like cables so you can't really test it out.
second thing, we still can't put the boards in,
(( jeez )) .
because they have other things blocking where we need to do it.
now we're dealing with having to bring it back again
they say they can, do something different and change some connectors
we hope so,
it's a hassle.
it really is.
it's just this problem with sales people just not knowing what goes on.
much time goes past before you finally get any kind of satisfaction.
I think that's the worst part.
some things are pretty good with that because I put it on a gold credit card
I just called the credit card company and explained to them the situation,
they said, you don't have to pay for it yet.
that's an advantage, isn't it?
It really is.
I think, there's a lot not to be said for credit
that's one thing to be said for credit.
It, (( how )) ,
it gets you some muscle where you need it.
I think that's really important.
these guys if they, give us a hard time we're going to say, you, look,
can't fix this to our satisfaction,
we're just returning the computer.
That's right.
That's right.
if we do that,
I just tell the credit card company, don't pay the charge,
That's right.
even though they've already paid it.
(( No )) .
they'll just,
they will,
undo the credit that they did to them.
That's right.
They will,
they will put the kind of clout on them that you can't really do.
(( Hal )) bought me, small, , little jam box kind of thing
ninety three year old mother living with us,
doesn't remember anything
to keep her entertained, music and some of these things do help.
I thought if I had, little, tape recorder, so that I could put some good music on in there for her every once in a while. And then also so that I do some musicals and things like this and if I can copy sections off that I can use someplace I figured this will be good.
time I turned it on, I was recording,
the next thing I knew the tape was chewed up in the,
after that then tape to play at the right speed in that side.
on the other side, it to my daughter the other day to take it over videotaping they were doing,
she says it's wrong too because the little thing pokes out too far,
get it to run way,
What brand is it?
Do you know?
wish I could tell you
I really don't know which brand it is.
(( It's )) ,
I was wondering
in our case where we knew we were buying a copy
we weren't buying,
on I B M P C
I was wondering if you,
name brand
I suspect that it's probably , just a fluke,
I have the papers and everything
we're going to just take it back
Do you buy it at some major store?
one of the I think it was a, I don't, I think it was, like a Highlands or something like this.
Highlands ,
(( )) chain down there that I don't know up here.
Do they have Highlands up there?
Don't they?
this was a regular, electronics store,
there will be too much problem
guess I'm not sure whether I think things are not made as well.
I think they deliberately sometimes,
I think a lot of things are not made as well.
Don't you?
what are you,
wel ,
of course, it's hard to think of an exact example,
I think that,
That's (( good ))
they're getting a kind of a, attitude of,
I jus ,
electronic stuff,
for one thing. I know their, work,
cars I think are not made,
as well as they could be.
I think that's right.
The fact that,
(( I )) ,
they want people to replace it after,
a couple of years.
The fact have competition with the Japanese and whatnot sometimes, dwells on a fact that,
people who have had Toyotas for years that have had almost no repair work to do on them.
they may cost a little more,
they don't have to take them to the shop every other day.
I had a Toyota
I loved it.
My Toyota did,
It does the,
really well.
(( it )) did a good job,
part of it is that we need to develop more pride the kinds of things we do so we make them better.
it kind of has to start from the top or from the bottom maybe and go clear up.
I think part of the problem comes in sort of shoddy workmanship.
The people just don't care about,
what they're doing.
the whole,
nobody cares,
really paying,
Attitude just get me my dollar so I can go do what I want to do, and, (( )) on,
give me my paycheck, so I can go home.
what I'm doing, right.
I think that's too bad.
it's a shame too because, when you get right down to it most things, if you do a good job, nobody can pay you enough .
(( There )) isn't,
any way to get paid enough.
if you do a good job, you feel enough satisfaction,
whatever you're paid is enough.
also I think,
I do research
I'm used to sort of being underpaid for whatever work gets done.
you get satisfaction out of it.
That's right,
I think they underestimate value the satisfaction
come both from the, individual side and also from the company side
the companies that, the attitude that,
you're the last one hired
you'll be the first one fired,
we just want you to do your days work,
we don't really care about you,
as an individual.
When you've got that type of attitude on it, the people don't care,
(( No )) .
about their work.
basically goes right back into the though unfortunately.
Starts with the one person that,
you need to really work hard at helping your kids to understand that there is value just in work for itself without any pay,
(( Little )) value just in whatever you do.
(( Doing a good )) job of it.
the, the that the value is in doing it well
Jay, where do you live in Texas?
I live in Dallas,
In Dallas.
right at the intersection of the busiest highway in the state. and a north south tollway.
What's that, the I Thirty and Central
called Six Thirty Five's the highway.
It's the looper that goes around the city
the tollway is called the Dallas North Tollway.
Just moved here a month ago
is that right?
after twenty one years, two miles to the east.
how about that?
it's a very different house from the typical Dallas,
It's a
new home?
It's about eight years old,
About eight years.
a duplex type thing.
very modern and, very open and airy
it's different long Texas ramblers.
What's your house like?
we live in a brick story and a half,
Cape Cod style, I guess you'd
call it.
have a big sun room on the back of it.
it's got a lot of and light, also?
it doesn't?
it doesn't have .
that's what my wife really wanted
With openness and light?
I understand that,
I would love that too .
last house wasn't too bad,
it was just too traditional,
this is very traditional.
time, probably a year and a half from now, we're going to try to build.
make one really, contemporary and, and very modern and very open and very light.
Do you have children at home?
I have three in college.
usually, get back summer,
You still need
space, plenty of space .
Still need a little bit of space.
have a lot less than we had,
Already cut back.
How big is your place?
It's, about square feet,
I guess.
that's good size.
It's four bedrooms and two baths and that,
we had,
has one wing built on that's a kitchen family room, and then the big room on the back.
we had four bedrooms, two and a half baths, in the place we just left.
to, two and two.
Two and two,
it won't be terribly wonderful when the kids are home,
it won't be that long, because we, not sure, how long they're going to stay or whatever.
I was just reading an article, that there were nineteen thousand properties available in Texas, for sale by the
Repossessed .
if you can find one in the right area you can really
pick up a steal.
I guess so.
really didn't go that route and didn't look.
the planning of them
housing market probably still going to even go lower.
There are houses by the regular route.
That's discouraging if you own property .
we just decided, sell.
a pretty good price, what we had.
not as good as it would have been
Few years.
say three or four
years ago.
was just the timing.
our daughter and son in law moved here. about a year and a half ago,
and had their house on the market down there,
they never did sell it.
they stayed six months,
she got her job back,
he got a job down there.
they're not moving very well.
For sure.
that's a good, example of it.
They live in Rowlett.
I know where that is.
here for twenty five years.
Have you?
I'm from Missouri,
my wife's from Kansas,
at a college here.
sort of home now.
What college are you teaching at?
I'm at,
It's one of the community colleges.
it's just about two miles to the west of
where I'm living.
it's very nice,
The only one I know
very convenient.
is Richardson .
Richland College it serves Richardson and, Garland.
that's about nine miles to the east
of here.
it's good to hear from you.
I enjoyed
I hope we,
talking to you.
hope we did them some
I hope so .
good, on their little computer
have a good life, the rest of it.
thank you,
same to you.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
what are your suggestions in making a family reunion successful .
Have a big family, I guess,
that's a start.
I guess so.
how old are you?
Twenty five,
you ha ,
I just got married.
you have been to some family reunions, perhaps.
every four years on one side of my family they plan on having, my and all their brothers and sisters and then all their kids and grandkids.
how long in advance do they, let them know?
we plan on it,
it's the third weekend in August,
it's every four years
they all know it.
arrangements are made during the Summer for food and staying where, because a lot of people down here, in Texas.
a lot of my family is in Indiana.
That's where I'm originally from.
we usually meet at my uncle's cottage lake and, make a couple days of it.
that sounds like fun,
do they all have the small children too, that come?
pretty much.
all ages.
there's some my age
there are some a lot younger, about four generations, I guess.
my husband an extended family,
they don't ever plan it like you do.
huh .
I think if you can count on it every four years then people have it in mind
they have to start talking about it, or getting their act together about six months ahead to get in touch with everybody,
because they're rather socially active too.
by doing it about six months ahead, they can pretty much get everybody there.
If they don't, they'll say, we're planning to go a certain place that weekend with somebody else
we're already locked in
six months ahead has seemed to be okay for them.
are the youngest of very large families.
Therefore, they don't have many people left.
the few previous ones I've had,
I haven't known many of those people,
in the last few years it really has just been our immediate family
that's been very nice,
I have one sister,
and three brothers
they're only three out of five of us who have children.
we get to spend a lot of quality time with each other.
that's kind of nice because my husband's family reunions are so large,
they don't see each other very often,
we don't really know many of them.
that's kind of bad.
It really is,
they're fun,
they're a lot of fun,
still, they're not done on a regular basis
you kind of forget what happened, and who they were from the time before.
fun getting together with immediate family.
A lot of my cousins are real close
we always get together during holidays and weddings and stuff like that,
those are the ones that are in Texas?
you go to Indiana on that?
the ones in Indiana,
where in Indiana?
Lafayette, I don't know where,
I used to live in Indianapolis.
it's a little north of Indianapolis, about an hour.
it's very pretty country in there I think,
it's gorgeous.
when is your next one, scheduled now.
it's like, the last one was my high school graduation
the next one was when I graduated from college,
I guess about two more years.
do you think you'll have a baby to take back with you .
I don't know,
Maybe .
two more years,
I don't know,
you need another milestone,
I guess what,
I've been married now for about nine months
that was another milestone, I guess .
I'm sure,
not met your husband.
he's from Indiana,
is he?
they all met,
in Sherman.
Do you work to T I?
does he?
he's trying to get in med school,
we don't either,
I have a friend who, is working on this project.
Are they getting all the data they need?
I don't know,
have a hard time getting, people on the telephone.
getting through to anybody.
Sometimes I call off and on all day,
anyway, I guess we're supposed to be talking about family reunions aren't we .
I got off that.
we've kind of exhausted everything I guess.
I think we have been talking probably about four and a half minutes.
we both look forward to going to our next reunions, I'm sure.
it has been fun talking to you.
you too.
Thank you.
maybe I'll talk to you again.
bye bye.
Bye bye.
All right.
changes do you think have taken place in the last generation?
I guess the biggest one is number of women in the work force.
Few are, basically staying home and being homemakers, and raising kids exclusively.
I grew up in, sixties and early seventies
my mom didn't work at all when I was growing up.
She didn't start working until I was, well into high school.
had the advantage of having a mom at home that nowadays
mine taught kindergarten
she was always,
I guess her schedule was shorter
she was always,
Always home by the time you got home.
statistic I guess has been growing every year
(( it's like something around )) sixty, sixty five percent or so now.
I'm not sure what the future holds for that
a grass roots, effort or whatever going on
clean houses part time,
almost all the people that I clean for, believe it or not, are mothers that don't work .
That's unusual .
they're all,
it's, I think it's kind of a new movement
it's going back towards,
women have come into the work force in the last twenty, thirty years
they're wanting to go back to the old days where, women stayed home with the kids, and try to give the kids quality time.
I think you're going to see a lot more, women choosing to not work after they have a baby.
I think work force with salaries that
the women that I work for have husbands who are, vice presidents of companies
I think with, this, it seems like it's more the upper class people,
I don't see it as much, like in my situation where have children yet,
ideally I would like to be able to stay home with my kids.
realistically probably not going to be possible, for middle class people to be able to live just on one income.
that is tough.
we're looking at that now,
my wife's about six months along.
I think it's going to be a luxury item to be able to stay home with your kids.
it's going to go along with the B M W in the driveway in the garage or whatever.
the quarter of a million dollar home or whatever.
I'm surprised that the main people you work for are women that do stay home.
I would think it would be women that were working full time.
believe it or not though women that stay home are real busy when they are home.
they're real active in volunteer work.
one of the women is real active with, Muscular Dystrophy. And, does a lot work with them on a volunteer basis
like a job,
she just doesn't get paid for it.
I guess that's good that got something to keep them active.
your wife has her baby, is she going to stay home
is she going to,
go back to work?
we're going to try and have her stay home, for as long as possible.
What do you think?
like to be able to do that.
we think it's, that important
kind of hope that the trend goes back in that direction.
I'm counselor and a therapist,
I work with adolescents,
I see some of the problems the kids have when they don't have a real good family structure.
see a difference in before me,
were, mom was like, or whatever,
where attitudes were a lot different.
as far as, I think the kids back then seemed to be a lot more,
wasn't a lot of the drugs and alcohol and,
a lot of things that are going on in today's society,
I think morally, it seems like a lot better back then as far as standards.
the husbands' roles are almost nonexistent in family anymore in terms of being the father figure
with women working so much they're kind of pulled out of it too.
kids are raised around their friends and by the media.
that's true.
you're going to see a lot more of that in the future.
maybe that's contributed to a lot of the problems that we see all the time,
If there was some way women stay home even if they could work,
there are a lot of jobs that are coming about, like in computers at home,
and those types of things, that would at least in some ways, bridge the gap .
think that, in the future, family unit once was known, going to be nonexistent .
That as far as
you think there's going to be still a family unit
do you think that, the trend is going more towards single parenting?
The (( balance ))
I don't,
divorce rate keeps hovering around fifty percent or so
it got higher than that for a while.
that's hard to say.
Families are such a strange configuration anymore.
see a lot of families where,
I grew up about the same time you did,
back in those times we pretty much were taught how to be responsible.
nowadays it's not the case,
with all kinds of junk
one of the reasons, I guess, is because there's so much more income in the family with both parents working.
They get bombarded with junk
they don't have to do anything around the house.
They never learned to be responsible when,
the bigger trend called the boomerang kids where they move out for a while
they come back,
you got twenty and thirty year olds who are living at home with mom and dad
you create a family, generation after generation but not really on purpose.
It's a real functional situation anyway.
that that trend's going to change the single parent type families
the (( )) families, as long as we've got so many other crazy things going on in society.
think that eventually family unit's just not going to even exist anymore.
(( )) like you said the divorce rate is getting so high that I think there's going to be more single parent families than there are, two parent families.
That's pretty sad.
it is,
I guess there's major swing in the change of what's important to people, probably keep going downhill.
I, I don't know
feel we can make it on one income
may be tough
we may have to give up on things.
think in the long run though your child will benefit from that.
make strain worthwhile.
I think so too.
need to go ahead wrap it up.
it was really nice talking to you.
I've enjoyed it, Stephanie.
thanks a lot.
bye bye.
Bye bye.
have you grown up in Dallas, Stephanie?
I've only been here for the last ten years,
where are you from?
I grew up most of my childhood in Germany.
In Germany.
took a lot of vacations while we were there because everything was within driving distance.
there's a place I'd like to visit .
travelled all over Europe.
that's neat.
very young. Unfortunately, little bit too young to really appreciate.
I was grade school age.
about five months right after the second world war
we've seen lots of pictures beautiful,
spots and,
y ,
that would be really nice vacation
because not in physical shape for something like that, but, sure would work on it ,
if I had an opportunity like that.
that's .
What kind of vacations do you like?
my husband and I are scuba divers.
H ,
we both like to go to dive resorts.
we went to Hawaii on our honeymoon,
we dove there.
did about six dives while we were there.
we were originally planning on going to Cayman,
last year
we weren't able to get enough people together for the trip.
We had to have, eleven people for,
this package, deal.
we couldn't get enough people together, to go,
it ended up
We were going to get a really good price.
our children were younger, up in, New York,
New Jersey and, and used to like, traveling into upstate New York and camping
we had a little collapsible sailboat and liked to sail and, that sort of thing,
we've never really, did any diving or anything.
Little bit ,
not much of,
of anything else.
my husband and I both like water,
vacation that we go on is usually,
It's got to be the water.
close to the ocean,
something like that.
we were in Jersey, we used to go down to the Jersey beach a lot, and really enjoyed that a lot.
It's really, they had,
a really nice beach areas there.
After we moved away from Germany, we moved to New Hampshire.
I lived there for seven years.
I see.
That's a really pretty area, too.
I really enjoyed that because, the mountains were real close,
white mountains
unfortunately, I didn't really get to go skiing much while I was there.
I went skiing once.
New Jersey area, too, because lakes were really pretty close,
you could,
you could drive within twenty minutes to an hour and just be at a real nice vacation spot where you could sail just really,
then we weren't too for from the Appalachian Trail,
we did quite a bit of hiking,
which is kind of fun.
Are hiker, or not?
Not so much,
really so much.
if there was some place we went to where there was hiking involved, would be happy to go hiking,
never have really planned a vacation around, places to go hiking.
your plans are try to find someplace to dive.
Our next vacation be scuba diving,
I'm sure.
You have any children?
not yet.
then that's probably one of the reasons our,
we had little children all the time,
some of the things are not adaptable.
little more, difficult planning a vacation,
it is.
when you children.
You have to try to figure out kinds of things that you can do that they will enjoy, too,
I think, wha ,
diving is something that,
especially for small children,
I think minimum age for diving is,
is probably, legal anyway, would be probably about sixteen.
Eleven or twelve, I would think, probably
maybe fifteen even.
I know that, thing that happens vacation trips now is that usually that try to involve some of the members of the family.
we go wherever somebody is,
that we haven't seen for a while .
kind of,
we just came back from, Grand Rapids where we saw one of our sons graduate,
his Master's Degree in social work
that was fun,
the summer reunion Salt Lake area up by Park Cities.
Where we're going to camp for a week with as many members a rather large reunion group as we can get together
sounds like a lot of fun.
Ye ,
Our family had a reunion last year that was kind of like that, too,
that there were several hundred, people
they all kind of met at a central place.
didn't go,
we've moved around enough so that we now have people in different parts of the country.
I guess my favorite vacation idea would be to somehow figure out something kind of mobile where you could stop and sleep maybe, like a,
a small camper.
travelled in a big one.
I hate them because they're hard to jockey around,
maybe a pickup with the back on,
the Volkswagen Vanagon.
I've heard is really nice.
you could kind of sleep in it sometimes,
you wouldn't want to do it all the time.
we have enough friends here and there,
I would just love to just drive through the United States and stop and see people I know,
and visit for a day and then go on and,
My dad has been talking for years about, getting a fifth wheel
and just picking up,
he's retired
he's in his sixties,
he, would like to just get a fifth wheel and just travel across the country and spend a month here or a couple of weeks there,
and just, not,
be settled anywhere,
I think,
just see, see the rest of the country.
I think that would real,
I would like to maybe not take great long trips, have your home base, where your home is
and then just travel out for, maybe, a month, maybe go,
does that quite a bit.
hasn't lately, though, because he's been ill,
he's been known to be gone for a month or two at a time
he'll say, this is my itinerary.
I'm going here, here and here
I'll be back in about two months .
There are a lot of places to visit in America,
that's for sure.
been much to the south,
I haven't been Georgia or Florida or Mississippi or Alabama.
I guess the only states I have not visited.
up the coast, Maryland and around there, early history is, there's some
Johnstown and, area is just really neat,
interesting things to
Have you been lot of the different historical sites?
we took a trip, around to the, Civil War battle grounds and things back in nineteen sixty when it was the centennial or something,
I believe it was.
had about three kids then I think,
that was a really fun, interesting trip.
we read Bruce (( )) book before we went,
we were ready to look up the places we read about.
It was really interesting.
I think now while my husband and I don't have any kids we'll probably take as many vacations as we can doing things like scuba diving and,
and adventurous types of things,
have kids,
folks did a lot of traveling across country.
they went to the Grand Canyon and did things like that.
camping is fun with kids.
If you're,
once they get a little bigger, not teeny tiny ones,
some little ones do pretty good
when they get a little bigger they can help,
a fun way cut costs
it's enjoyable, too.
Very restful.
I find,
do enjoy camping.
I find the outdoors very relaxing and, kind of a change.
As long as I have a shower nearby, I'm fine .
Yeah .
And electricity.
I'm with you.
I need my creature comforts, too.
it was great to talk to you.
It was nice talking to you, too, Beth.
see you later.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
What kind of painting are you planning to do?
I have wallpaper in both of my bathrooms right now which is really pretty disgusting.
it's a rent house
I decided it's too expensive to rewallpaper
I decided I'm going to paint.
I've been buying some magazines and stuff and looking at different ways to paint.
I'm thinking about maybe sponge painting them.
what would be interesting.
Either that or maybe rag rolling.
To give it kind of a country look.
I've never done any of those fancy kinds of paint treatments,
they look very interesting
you get some beautiful effects with them.
one of the books that I bought, where it's the sponge painting, said you can layer different colors
I've seen that done, where there's
I saw one that was kind on an ecru undercoat
it had, a little bit darker sort of peachy color,
in between there was a sort of a rust, put on very sparingly.
it gave the impression of very old weathered stucco.
trying to do is I've got yellow tile in both the bathrooms
I want something that's going to tie that together
I'm changing the, the fixtures out to make them wood,
I'm going to put wood in there.
that should be nice.
it's going to have kind of a country look.
I haven't even decided as far as, what kind of paint to buy.
I don't have an actual instruction book
I'm really in kind of the beginning stages right now.
it's going to be a big experiment.
I was about to say, you ought to experiment on at least a small part of it before you just tackle the whole thing .
Because you might find that it's beyond, what you're willing to put into it.
Although I think it could turn out really nice.
I haven't ever done fancy painting
I sure did my share of just regular painting.
I've painted several houses, inside.
No ,
never painted the outside.
what kind of paint do you normally use?
we used a latex, wall paint and then a semigloss enamel for the woodwork
my job was mostly the woodwork.
My husband would paint the walls and ceilings with the rollers
I got to do all of the masking tape and then all of the little fine, trim work,
where I'd use a small brush and, try to keep the paint from dripping on the windows and things like that .
of our bathroom has a window in it
I'm hoping that, it won't be too much of problem.
I'm wondering if my bigger problem is getting the wallpaper taken down first. Because think,
I was going to ask if you planned to paint over it or try to strip it.
planning on taking it off.
I have heard that they've got these steamers you can rent now, which make it much easier to get wallpaper off.
I tried to get wallpaper off once twenty years ago, with a just a scraper and wet sponge
it took forever.
I would not recommend that method.
that's something worthwhile checking into then. 'Cause I,
if you can rent a steamer, if it's modern wallpaper it should come off without too much trouble.
If it's really old, you don't know what it's put on with.
hard to tell,
the patterns look like they're nineteen sixties style.
I know the house, was built around the mid fifties.
it may be the original wallpaper .
Could be,
if it's vinyl it should be easier to strip too.
If it's paper it will probably shred.
in one bathroom probably paper,
it's and yellow,
huh .
and white.
the wallpaper that I was trying to remove was black,
a bathroom too.
tiles were sort of a mottled grey and had a little trim strip of maroon and white
wallpaper in that bathroom had a black background
it had vivid, almost neon colors of hot pink and turquoise, and lime green and silver, and, a little bit of yellow that looked like coral sands and sea horses and things like that .
that's kind of an odd color for a bathroom.
it was awful,
it was absolutely hideous
we had a dinner party before we started renovating it
guest went in there
he said it's a good thing I went to the bathroom before dinner because if I had had something to drink and went in there I would think I was having hallucinations .
after looking at all and stuff, I'm thinking about maybe painting the bedroom walls too, in a color that will kind of, tie in our, comforter,
with a color that's kind of a, burgundy and green and yellow and blue and beige floral design.
I'm not really quite sure,
I don't know if maybe I'm biting off more than I can chew.
I'd say tackle one project first and see how it goes
if you discover you like it then you can always upscale.
the bedroom would probably be the easier of the two because it would be just plain painting.
It wouldn't be any kind of effects type thing.
It would be just plain paint.
it's not hard to do if you get everything prepared ahead of time.
Because if you, use drop cloths to cover everything and you use masking tape to trim out, all the parts that you don't want to slop over onto, you don't have to be quite as precise about how you do it
it can be done a whole lot faster.
with rollers and, modern latex paints,
you can wash up easily because they're water soluble.
they dry fast
you really don't have to be disrupted for more than about a weekend. If you have some help.
discover the little tricks and tips about, how you get through corners and how you do trim and, how long to leave the masking tape down, because if you leave it too long and it dries it can flake pull it up.
peels the paint off when you take it off,
you leave it on for weeks, it will do that.
If you take it up the next day it should be fine.
You want it to get dry, but not, just real hard.
You don't want the gum on the back of the masking tape to get dried to hard.
That's the problem.
It will come up a lot easier if you don't wait too long.
I always used the nice wide masking tape,
I've heard from people who tried to get by and skimp on narrow masking tape that it was more trouble than it was worth.
Because rips as you pull it off for one thing
you end up tediously scraping these tiny little shreds of masking tape .
the whole point of using it is to save yourself work.
You can do a little faster painting and much easier clean up if you use the masking tape.
good, stuff and buy it at a paint store where they have the right brands,
that will go down and come up easily.
I really appreciate all the helpful tips,
I think you just made my project a lot easier .
I wish you very good luck with it
I will tell you that I have retired from the painting business.
The last time I had something done was my kitchen cabinets
I decided that was too much to tackle,
I'd hire a professional.
closer I'd tell you you could come over and supervise .
if I were closer I might.
I hope your project turns out great
I, really think that it's exciting that you're going to try the sponge painting.
I think that could give it
we'll see how it goes,
I may just be flat painting over it.
of course that's the other advantage of paint.
If you don't like it all you do is put on another coat.
I guess we'd better go because our time looks like it's about up.
need to go to the dentist,
bye bye.
It's was nice talking to you Kathleen.
Thank you.
Bye bye.
I think I get most of my news, in headlines from the radio,
I follow up by reading the newspaper and news magazines about things that attract my attention.
do about the same, I guess, but in a different fashion.
I'm from New York originally
that I live in Florida,
I live in the Florida in the winter and then go back up north summertime
feel that only legitimate paper , although it might sound,
a little elitist is the NEW YORK TIMES.
I've always read the NEW YORK TIMES when I was younger,
I try t ,
now that it has a national edition, I read that.
I, I guess I do watch, MCNEIL LEHRER on P B S
because lean to that coverage,
I guess I'm (( )) ,
I like them
they take so long.
I don't always
have time .
(( there ))
, it's a whole hour show.
it's an hour show each evening,
turn it on when we start dinner.
We seem to start dinner around six and finish it up.
I find that I'm leaning on,
I travel a great deal, even overseas,
I find that I lean on, C N N quite a bit for concise and quick stuff.
I'm quite satisfied with the way they put it out.
don't believe everything they say,
I think C N N does a pretty good job.
I had not watched them very much except when I was abroad,
until the Gulf War.
they seemed to have the best coverage.
They had more information sooner than,
most of the other networks.
Peter Arnet was reporting direct from, Iraq.
I think
this is scandalous the way everybody's picking on him.
think saw
if you didn't like it, that was just too bad,
I know that the coverage he was allowed to present was slanted,
I think they said that frequently enough.
, yeah,
That, you shouldn't criticize the man
for giving us one perspective.
right, I think so.
I guess when it comes magazines, I don't read,
I used to when I was younger,
I subscribed to TIME and U S NEWS AND WORLD REPORT.
have seemed to slide away from that and rely more on the local paper
I also subscribe to something called WORLD PRESS, which is
a magazine that only talks about other, from the WORLD PRESS,
which sort of gives you a different slant, than,
it's not as slanted as the NEW YORK TIMES or as biased perhaps as the local paper.
that I guess, and the radio.
I listen to P B S radio a lot
I also listen to, these twenty four hour news stations, when I'm driving.
we have a C B S twenty four hour station
that I listen to on the way to and from work
Do you read,
are you from Southern or Northern California?
I'm from,
(( ))
the peninsula,
is that,
Palo Alto.
what is that,
the San Francisco paper out there is,
the major paper?
it's horrible.
that's a terrible paper.
The San Francisco paper is just wretched.
I subscribe to the SAN JOSE MERCURY NEWS.
Is that pretty good?
Palo Alto is about midway between.
it's a whole lot better than that San Francisco paper
CHRONICLE isn't it?
there's the CHRONICLE,
and the EXAMINER,
they're, both run by the same peo ,
are probably the worse papers I've ever read.
They're just horrid
we read,
can you get the L A paper up there?
That's a pretty decent paper isn't it
we can,
I don't like it.
we subscribe to the NEW YORK TIMES
and the WALL STREET JOURNAL
and MERCURY NEWS.
that's another one I read,
I forgot that.
I read the WALL STREET JOURNAL,
not as in depth as I used to, because articles seem to be getting even longer and longer
again, I read that,
two columns on the front.
I agree with you that the problem seems to be they don't have enough time to do all the stuff.
I feel pretty well versed what I'm doing because do spend more time on that than I do, say, on sports,
although I watch that,
I spend a lot of time reading about these things.
I'm quite interested.
I find it very exciting the coverage we have now, today.
I think we do get pretty good coverage.
I don't feel that the American people is being shortchanged by news coverage.
If anything, list ,
We almost have too much.
I don't know,
hear a lot of criticism about listening to these, the Dan Rathers of the world and taking their word for it, their comment,
slant things
I cannot stand Dan Rather.
I remember him when he was a local newscaster in Houston.
No kidding!
I hated him then.
I didn't know that.
I would not watch that man for money.
he and Barbara Walters just really turn my stomach.
I watch Peter Jennings, and,
and Tom Brokaw. Sort of alternately.
How do you feel about it?
I guess got to say, do I feel that we're well enough equipped to,
I don't know
it said that. I feel I'm well enough equipped.
Do we get enough news or something like that?
Do we get,
do we get the news that we want?
I do.
I really think.
I think I do too.
I think you got to segregate some of it.
that's about all I have to say .
nice to talk to you.
Nice talking to you.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
everyone thinks taxes are too high I'm sure.
I think we do get quite a good value for the tax dollars we spend in most cases.
What do you think?
think so.
I think I'm, I think I'm, a little out of the ordinary in I think I'm more worried about a lot of other people are and think that either raise our taxes cutback on something
I don't know what to cutback on to,
At this stage it's hard, to tell.
to get, to get that, to get that settled.
I know I'm real, out of it in terms of taxes
think that we really ought to seriously consider what an income tax might do Texas
at this stage I think we've taxed property almost to the limit because,
I think so.
property taxes on the homes have reached the point that it's precluding people from being able to own a home because of the cost of the taxes on them.
I know
I live in Richardson
it's up over two thousand dollars a year for taxes on my house.
now we're getting public services, the schools, the hospitals
if it weren't for the taxes we're putting in there, look what the schools could cost you.
moved to one of the reasons we chose it was schools. realizing that that quality of schools might well have higher taxes than other places but that we were willing go for that,
because we supported the,
Then again community college system here is excellent for the dollar spent,
the public,
colleges also, the tuition has got to be among the lowest in the country.
one of the,
which one it is, down there whether it's Hobby or, the other ex governor down there that are proposing doubling the tuition.
if you double the tuition, it would still be considerably less than the public school tuition in most other states.
I think that's right.
That would provide, possibly some relief there to utilize some of the property taxes for other things,
The so called (( sin )) taxes on liquor and the cigarettes and such as that generate a considerable amount,
think you may tax people out of smoking even.
I don't know about that,
Yeah .
I quit ten years ago
I see.
I couldn't afford to start again .
that would be true.
That would be true.
I know,
my children would give up eating before they gave up their cigarettes I think.
all the various taxing authorities that come through, I think the one tax I resent the most though is the additional sales tax for DART which is probably never going to be in existence in my lifetime.
even if it is, isn't going to, provide you with services in that it's not doing to provide a route from home to a business, for instance,
is a thing
I think it's like, back east.
You had to start your public transportation when you started your cities.
You can't come in afterward and really be successful or economical at it.
If we had been like a Chicago or a New York City or Philadelphia or someone like that,
and had a public transportation system starting in the horse and buggy days
and when land was cheap and, construction costs were cheap, you could afford it.
digging tunnels under Central Expressway and things like that becomes cost prohibitive.
the other thing is that established that early on the and residential patterns develop to take advantage of that.
Whereas in Dallas here those patterns were well established we really do the DART.
for instance office buildings and stuff that are out here north Dallas as opposed to downtown,
provide efficient transportation from everywhere around metroplex both those centers business plus everything else that's scattered around here and there as opposed to having a concentrated business area.
like New York does,
just take like in Chicago where the people depend on the public transportation system to get them everywhere.
New York
people don't even own a car and know how to drive a car.
Someone made the analogy, with Texans as being like the old cowboys and their horse.
An old cowboy would jump on his horse to go across the street.
most Texans will jump in their car to drive across the street.
I'm just as guilty as anyone else.
I drive to work every day by myself, without any thought of car pooling.
most people are that way.
Because they're used to not having public transportation.
here again I think (( )) I resented where they were collecting the sales tax for five years before they turned a spade of dirt.
and doing all these studies and the things
we saw about them traveling to San Francisco to see whether they wanted ten foot wide or twelve foot wide cars or something.
I felt that was a little, wasteful use of the tax dollars that we were paying,
A little bit much.
the c ,
that's about all I can say at this time.
I think that will probably do it,
it's been real nice talking with you.
Good enough.
do you own a P C by the way?
I'm guessing you probably do.
I don't have one in my home here.
My, parents have one
they live just about three miles away,
we use that one.
I see.
my in laws also have one,
they're almost as close.
They're in Richardson.
what kinds of things do you use it for to them?
usually, word processing something, such as, forms for things,
I have a nine year old that I've been home schooling for the last three years.
we got,
the one that my parents have is an Apple Two E.
I have a sister in law in the Fort Worth school district.
she got me copies of, several of the Apple programs
for school programs,
we use those
there's some,
whenever we go over and visit grandma the kids love to play the computer game,
that's part of it.
my husband has used the one at his folks house for mostly business things.
his resume, his, letter,
he's been applying for jobs and things,
that type of thing. forms for his photography business,
and that kind of thing.
I tell you once you get used to having them get spoiled really quickly.
my father had a software company,
they have a bunch of computers leftover from that
we're hoping that they can put together something for us here that we can have the word processing,
here .
they're kind of old
I'm not sure that we'll be able to too many other programs for it.
writer by profession
I was first here Dallas or in Plano, afford a new typewriter, and I got an I B M Selectric. I thought I had died and gone to heaven because ,
I thought, they're so wonderful.
I have one of those.
Mines broke at the moment,
ours really needs to have some work done on it
then my husband, worked at T I
the T I professional and brought that home
I learned Wordstar on that,
boy once that happened, there was just no way that I could ever go back to doing anything of length of the typewriter.
I learned Wordstar,
I did some typing for my father when he had the company
I learned that on there too,
that was,
Have you ever used WordPerfect?
I haven't.
That's the one that my father,
I guess I have used it once or twice.
it's the one that's on my father in law's computer.
He's got on I B M.
That's probably where you've used it.
that's the program that they're using there.
I have that on my, computer here
also, I do some work at U T D
that's what they have there
it was just so nice to be able just to step into the position software.
I don't know from my own experience,
WordPerfect is just so much better Wordstar at least the version of Wordstar that I used to have.
It may be improved by now
That's what I've heard.
never very intuitive to me.
some of the commands just had nothing to do with, did on the
like going, forward and backward a word or up and down a line that sort of thing just, didn't match with the kinds of keys,
you had to,
you were using.
memorize it,
WordPerfect is just a lot more intuitive in a lot of ways.
does a lot of things too that do any kind of, research or anything like that where you have to, use footnotes, it is just wonderful.
Because it keeps track of all your footnotes.
that's neat.
the middle, if you come up with some new piece of documentation and you put that in the middle of your paper and have to footnote it, all your footnoting numbers for you.
how wonderful.
it's just,
That, I had heard that that was better.
That was a better one.
I think about how it used to be if you were doing a paper and you had to go back and retype everything,
it was just awful.
I don't know I think we have just become really spoiled.
I think,
it's a nice kind of way to be spoiled .
I agree .
I have not really paid much attention (( because I ))
although I think we've probably been talking at least ten minutes
have some other things you want to talk about as having to do with P C s.
Not too much.
things do you write?
I was a technical writer for many years,
my husband and I actually met in a computer company.
I was a tech writer
he was an engineer. I did tech writing for a number of years.
. Go talk to Daddy about it.
Excuse me.
Go on and talk to Daddy about it .
Tell Daddy I unplugged it for you.
you don't need to drag it down the hall .
Got a problem,
came home and found her playing with the telephone that I had unplugged .
Trying to figure out what all that was about, .
I have,
was the majority of my writing although, I have also done free lance magazine writing and some educational writing.
for a while I had partnership advertising agency with another woman who is artist.
I did some advertising and P R
not working anymore.
I'm doing a lot of writing
now all of the sc , scholastic majors though,
I've done of different kinds,
just know right now that I couldn't have put out half of what I did if that much without the being in computers
that's been really great.
real spoiled.
I'm anxious some day to have one here.
they just talked (( the about setting something up again
hopefully pretty soon we'll at least have the word processing.
My nine year old I've decided to teach her how to type
using the computer,
That's great.
those are skills that she certainly going to need early on
That's right.
it seems like it's getting earlier and earlier with the children.
I think that that would be advantage her to have that and,
do it early,
writing a story together.
wanted her to put it into the computer,
and then print it out and,
make a book with it,
I decided if she's going to do that, it would be a whole lot easier if she could type .
Right .
we'll slowly learn just to type here
That's great.
put the story in.
skill that she can use for the rest of her life,
Might as well start now, .
I agree.
(( Nola )) I have enjoyed talking with you thoroughly.
This is really going to be fun I think,
my husband is a ham radio operator
I think about all the people that he talks to all over the,
Steve, did you go to college?
In fact, I'm still going.
that's good.
you probably could give some great advice.
I don't know about that,
in the process of trying to choose a P H D school.
computer science and cognitive science.
similar to what,
I'm in a P H D program right now.
I see.
my area of expertise, it's information systems, which is a little bit less technical, I think, computer science.
my area of expertise is, human computer interaction.
I think that's one reason why I'm part of this study, because I'm working with voice systems.
good luck.
I guess we should talk about giving advice, though.
what type of advice do you think you'd give to parent?
To a parent?
the thing is, when you're a kid
and the kid at that age, especially if they're going into undergraduate, it seems like they think they know what they want.
choosing from my experience, I thought, parents know what I want.
I don't know,
at the same time, you have to decide what is important about the school,
the size of it or,
I think that's more important probably than even the career vocation, because most people change.
very few people that, started in one field and stayed with it.
I think that's what you just said, having to do more with the size of the school, the environment of the school,
I think that's much more important.
I'd advise a parent to send a kid to a school, though, that has a number of different types of programs,
that, some of the smaller schools might be very limited in what they can offer,
some of some of the larger small schools, I guess around three or four thousand students
can offer a broader range of curriculums and things,
if the kid does change, they don't have to transfer,
they don't have to,
I don't know, they don't have to give up years credit transfer and things.
That's disruptive.
I normally,
parents hate to hear this,
actually teach college,
talk to the parents
the kid doesn't know exactly what they want,
I always say make sure you major,
in something that you like, even if it's not going to be your career vocation,
because you'll get better grades.
think most employers would probably rather hire, three six history, to be a salesman than someone with a two oh in business administration.
Does that make sense?
I see what you're saying.
I always, tell them that you should major in something going to get good grades in.
Because always, I think, more important, overall.
I don't know.
give me five minutes.
at the office now?
At work?
I'm just getting ready to go to lunch .
that's like what we were saying, though,
would you, advise a private school, or a public school,
what's the trade off there,
it would,
I live in Maryland,
the public schools here are,
pretty good.
I teach at a public school, actually,
I know that the S A T scores for our admitting freshmen are higher than
full time public school,
right now I'm teaching part time
I see.
I'm getting a better caliber of student at the private school, because I think their parents pay more,
I think the kids are a little bit more challenged, because their parents are probably college educated,
where at the public school, I don't think as many parents are college educated,
because it costs less, the kid doesn't take it quite as serious,
the minimal cost.
I think you can get a good education at public or private
I think you can also get a bad education at public or private,
look around at the school.
think the bad part is that most parents or kids don't know what to look for.
I think, I would agree with that.
In fact, where in graduate school,
I was trying to (( choose )) .
a particular institution might be better
for my area
yet, the University of Small Town in Arkansas or something,
might have some top specialists in my area.
Yet, if I go to U of I or C M U or, big name school, my quality of education might not be that much better,
it's the same thing,
there's, what will the name recognition,
get me,
kind of thing.
does it have a big ten football team
yeah .
usually the basic criteria.
is it a PAC ten school,
I think,
at the University of Maryland, in region, though I go to a smaller branch of the University of Maryland, my diploma will still say University of Maryland.
(( )) .
it differentiate on my diploma, though I would put it on my resume, what program I went to.
think, I'm actually at a smaller program,
I'm not at
that's the big one with the football team.
I think you're right, that there based on name recognition.
when I first was applying for graduate schools, I applied to some big programs, in this area, like Stevens Institute of Technology, which is recognized in the Northeast one step below M I T in a sense,
it's got big name recognition in this area, a big science school, no football team, but a big science school,
technical people know that.
I don ,
I think you're right,
you really have to think about that for the job.
I went to a very small state college when I got my bachelor's,
when I,
I was in education at first when I was looking for jobs,
I was going to be a teacher,
I was just a high school teacher,
most people recognized that institution because it was a teaching school sort of,
then when I went, for graduate work, or for a new job, people said to me, Shippensburg State, where is that, .
yeah .
when I went into higher education, even at other universities, they weren't aware of it,
I think yeah,
that's important,
. I think it depends on regional job or a national job,
you need that first,
job or so out of school, too.
guess another thing that concerns me is, it seems like everybody today is still in that (( )) job market
where was I at?
to school, you get taught the things you learn in school,
there is also a whole other dimension, the growing up while you're going to school part.
actually, in the Midwest especially, a lot of the schools a main campus like Columbia, which is big, multi disciplinary,
they'll have a satellite campus smaller town that specializes in the technical field.
you've really, I guess sacrificed
some social
exposure to different groups and everything.
depending on your technical areas.
I could see that.
at University of Maryland where I am, in a P H D program, haven't even met, someone outside of my area of information systems except for,
Does your family normally have a reunion?
Do you have one,
that's been,
on my father's side we've really there,
On my mother's side we've had several,
it's not really on a regular basis,
usually sometimes every few summers.
the family lives in once place, except for a few of us are scattered about.
they're pretty much just reunited always
just once in a while we get the special gathering with everyone together.
it might be a good time for you to start a tradition.
I know,
that's ,
You could be responsible for that yourself.
(( )) do that,
that's true.
How about your family?
in my family, let's see, last October was the forty fifth annual
a pro at this.
The first Sunday in October, the Jordan family gets together.
that's good.
all of the descendants of the Civil War veterans come together,
they come as far away (( from )) California,
there's usually between a hundred and fifty and two hundred and fifty people.
where do you meet?
there's a big community hall in Vernon
that seems to be sort of a middle ground for all of the Texas family.
Do you have relatives in Vernon
A lot of the older family lives in Vernon.
all of his direct have now died
the grandchildren are in their seventies and eighties.
we're talking about second and third great children here.
up until this year,
they're grown and gone from home now
take their family.
let's see,
that would make them, grandfather, great grandfather, great great grandfather,
it would be the second great grandchild.
this town hall that you meet in, is that like a,
a great big open building that has a wonderful kitchen it in,
you just bring the covered dishes.
family brings dish of some kind,
you get all the wonderful old family recipes,
(( )) .
that have been handed,
Potato salad and,
down for years .
we try to stay away from those things which might have, salmonella in them.
that's good.
we choose to bring congealed salad.
You can bring a congealed vegetable salad,
as opposed to potato salad.
sanitation aspects,
whatever you've got to carry for any distance.
I always,
take home baked bread.
that's nice.
that happens to be my specialty for that family.
I do other things very well,
there are others in the family who do them better.
Do they always have one person in the family who how to make this the best,
so that's what they get to cook.
that's good.
(( )) , I had a professor in anthropology at school who studied family reunions,
I learned a lot about them.
I haven't,
been to a lot,
we talked,
a lot about rituals,
you (( all )) equated the family reunions as,
with the Protestant.
It was the Protestant version of the Catholic pilgrimage.
an interesting theory.
She talked about Catholics
you usually are living where your parents live
it's all,
don't have to come home,
the Catholics would make a pilgrimage in older Europe,
when the Protestant ethic happened in America, there were people who ever went out and, went away from the family to seek their fortune, and then had to come back home for their reunion, so that,
became their version of the pilgrimage.
she had,
it was interesting,
I don't know how valid it is,
she talked about that and how big picnic table was the symbolic communion of the people gathering together, and, about the bread and the ritual placement.
Do you have certain way that everything is placed out on the table year?
Is there kind of a,
salads go first and things like that?
we have, kind of a core group serves as, quote, officers of the organization,
they plan the reunions,
the organize who is going to see to it that the coffee pot gets there, who's going to rent the tables, who's going to see to it that the silverware gets turned back to the caterer.
each year it's done a little bit differently, because different people serve in those roles.
that's pretty (( )) .
We have a biographer continues every year to save clippings on any family member,
they're entered into wonderful, scrap book. And pictures of new babies and new people who have been added and, and obituaries to those who are gone.
it keeps the family alive,
Sure does.
That's wonderful.
though it's very fluid.
they're very dedicated to that,
it's been really wonderful.
It helps you hang onto your roots.
I wish we'd,
it helps you feel a strong sense of belonging.
My husband, on the other hand, was not very close to his family.
His family was very scattered and very diverse.
I said, how is his nephew doing.
I don't know,
I haven't,
talked to my brother in three years."
(( I said )) , "Well, how's your brother doing?"
"I don't know."
my son keeps in touch with him, I think,
I don't.
I said, "Hey, wouldn't you like to know what's happening with these people?"
it's too much trouble."
I got busy, got together, and put a reunion together for his family.
You're just,
And succeeded in getting all of his brothers and sisters and all of their offspring but one
that's incredible.
to our place down at Lake Tawakoni.
Liked to kill me, because I didn't have that group cooperation,
I did,
it by myself.
nobody brought covered dishes.
We had a great big fish fry,
I fixed a salad in a number three tub.
Right .
it was an enormous task to bring all of those people together with just one or two people helping.
we had to provide sleeping arrangements for all of them
I told him,
done this repetitively, or just once?
We did it that year,
then the following summer, we did not have all of the family there.
We sent invitations.
We said, "Please let us know if you're coming."
It was when, had died the year before,
his mother was alone, they came to support her,
one by one, he began to lose family members,
a problem with that.
it was difficult to hold them together.
of course, he died two years ago,
that family has gone down to one brother and one sister now.
I think that's what happens when they get scattered,
family unit, falls,
into disrepair.
was probably six or seven years ago.
the second reunion, people who maybe, had sacrificed things to come to the first one thought, it's not that big a
thing this year,
it kind of wound down,
finally, the Shreveport relatives there, but no one else
to the vigor alive.
They'll send out news bulletins.
Two or three times a year you'll get a news bull ,
hey, guess who got, elected to the legislature,
guess who our local sheriff,
my children as a matter of fact, are all grown now.
I am
assisting them with their children
in their selections,
my children are grown,
they're teenagers
I have three children, seventeen and twenty
one was in kindergarten I started working at a preschool
and, doing some work,
took a couple of years off and then went back as a music teacher in a preschool,
I am around, not a day care situation, but child care environment
I, myself, really feel like the structured day care program is more successful in today's environment
than the one on one care is.
when my children were growing up, home with a lady who kept two or three kids,
I felt like that home environment was very important to them.
It was important to me
I feel that had that one on one that's so necessary at that age.
it is.
in today's environment
it may be more critical to have the ability to interact in large groups, simply because that's the way our young people dealt with.
in other words,
They're dealt with,
there're more people,
in packages.
an interesting point of view.
seeing the children in the school the way I do, we can always tell the ones that have not been around children at all
when they come in as three year olds
as opposed to the ones that have been in the program, that started at twelve months maybe, and were
were even in there one day a week
which is all our school provides for the,
for the under three year olds
still they have to be with other children
it is true,
as far as looking for a place, I think it's very important to have very caring people,
to take care of
without a doubt,
in a school
if you're going to have the structure and you're going to have the large numbers, you're going to need really,
I recently stopped by McDonalds,
I was sitting out in their little playground while my granddaughter was playing on the things, and was visiting with another mother who was there with her children,
she was telling me that she was given the opportunity to manage a day care center,
of course, her degree,
she was so enthusiastic,
she was excited about it
she was going to accomplish all of these things
however, when it came to hiring and staffing people who cared and who were willing to take care of those children and spend that kind of time, the pay is minimal
it is.
it takes people with total and complete dedication who really don't want to make a living for themselves
that's right,
that maybe,
in order to be in that environment,
that maybe have another salary in their family
that's what I had the opportunity of, doing
I could concentrate on the creativity, really having a lot of fun with the children and
and providing,
they ask,
them with a great atmosphere,
so much of those caretakers for the amount they pay.
They are to be there ahead of time,
they're there early to receive the kids,
they have to be there at sometimes six o'clock in the morning.
That's right.
which is,
then they have to work closes at six P M
it's their responsibility to clean up and be prepared for the next day
because they don't have cleaning crews in most of those.
that's true,
that's true.
she just had a terrible time keeping sincerely dedicated people simply because they could not live with a kind of hours and the salary.
because people can't pay
to provide
don't have expenses of a building,
we share the expense with the church,
we don't have enough
taking care of a whole building
and that responsibility.
a lot different.
I know that when my youngsters were small,
my older son was adopted
he went into child care at two weeks
my goodness.
my younger son went into child care at six weeks.
they were in that environment actually, up until they became, seven and nine.
at that point I said, Look they have been given the custodial care that they need,
the after hours care has been as good a quality as I can provide for them.
However, they're going out into the school environment now,
they're under a lot of other influences.
I need to be here for them.
I need to be involved in their school, because I want to be the one
who influences the way they develop.
I quit working
you did?
after my kids started to school
and got involved in volunteer work in their private school so that I could help direct learning experiences and their development.
felt like that anybody who cared and loved the kids could change their diapers and feed them and bathe them
and hold them.
when time came to direct their ability to make choices
to develop the kinds of things they're going to need to interact with other people, I felt like I needed some strong influence there.
I di ,
that's different than most people do it.
I know.
a lot of people do it really the reverse
That's right,
once they get up in sch ,
and go to work after the children
are in school,
I just felt very strongly about that,
did not work as a matter of fact,
my son was in the second grade,
when he started, at Skyline High School, I asked him, Son, do I go to sign up for the P T A?
he said, Mom, don't do that to me,
please don't do that to me.
I knew it was time to go back to work.
I feel very
good about spending those years with my boys.
that's true.
I was just really grateful I only had one bad child care experience.
It was in a home.
the care taker that they had had since they were infants just could not do it.
She was from, Argentina
she was going back home,
I couldn't just, wait for or four months and then bring them back to her
I had to find a new place
I put them in this home,
the kids cried when I took them,
I went to pick them up
they were always cranky and irritable
I just took off and went there one day,
the children were left unattended in a room,
were not well cared for
how awful,
it didn't take me long to take them out of that place
that's the only bad experience I had,
the rest of the time they stayed in La Petite Academy
I was very pleased with their development and their progress.
They learned a lot of things in those public environments that you just as soon they didn't learn,
they're going to learn it sometime,
for the most part, they did have good care,
it did appear to me that the people who cared for them had a good concern for them,
in one particular case they had a summer program where they were to be taken to the Y and taught to swim
which just pleased me to death
because I've always of the water
however, my older son came home
he said, Mom, I don't like that man,
said, he took me by the head and dunked my head under the water
and told me I had to get my face wet or I'd never swim
it didn't take me very long to hot foot it over to the school
and relay that to them,
kids do exaggerate,
she said, let's go ahead and send him another day, or two days,
I promise you faithfully, I will watch the instructor every minute
and see exactly what's happening.
what were you saying?
children when you work?
not at all.
I work with computers.
With computers.
they what,
do you ha ,
one thing I,
you have friends that have children.
I have some friends that have children, not that many actually.
What is child care like in New York?
What is,
I do not really know,
excuse me,
too much about child care in New York .
Does the company you work for have,
child care on premises for,
Excuse me one second.
Huh .
not at all,
in fact my situation is a little bit strange,
I was, a student for many years, and then graduated and went and worked in France for awhile.
have just come back and was doing consulting work.
I am just taking a little bit of time off right now.
A sabbatical .
I might,
I hope you can stay as long as possible with it.
(( hopefully )) I can do some consulting work at home.
if I can do that it will,
that would be wonderful.
I'll be able to spend the time with my daughter, and
not have to worry too much about child care.
I might start to go crazy with it too.
It is a little,
I miss the intellectual stimulation.
at the same time it would break my heart to give her to a stranger right now.
I think it does they are real little
they are changing every day,
you just miss the little things,
I would put her in day care for (( joint )) ,
situation right now, unless it was one other child person.
I would not want her to be large day care situation so young.
Because I think a little infant just does not get the stimulation they need.
That's right.
Maybe if I needed to work part time, like four hours a day, I might do that, cause you should get enough stimulation from you the rest of the time.
I just think that, when there's two year olds running around, are going to pay attention to the two year olds.
That's right.
only when the infant screams,
That's right.
are they going to go there,
if not, the infant is going to lay in the crib all day, and maybe have a mobile above it to play with.
I play with her most of the time she is awake
I think that is so important.
is important for the bonding that they do it,
with the mother.
such as things for learning gives the child stimulation I think is important.
Our oldest grandson, when he was eighteen months old went into Montessori,
day care system.
they took infants starting at six weeks,
they have a program, that was devised by this montessori person
a certain type of stimulations
there's times of day that even when the child is awake lay quietly and look at certain things
they the room not real bright.
they have different things put them down on the floor,
of course, they never have more than five,
they will put them down on the floor
of them was a little mirror
some were just different objects that a definite purpose
for kids,
there's something about their eyes.
just been doing all kinds of stuff (( where )) she's, (( )) ,
How old is she?
She's two months now, nine weeks.
she's just drastically moving her eyes from one side to another and things like that.
she's just started that yesterday or the day before,
every days )) are different.
child care for infants is much harder than when they are older,
I will probably be going back to work around January,
whereas she will be about,
(( A little older )) .
eight or nine months old.
I think, she will be at a,
I have heard it's a rough age to put them into a,
It is because that's when they are clinging to mama,
you might have a real problem with that.
I think it,
I think it,
it hurts the parents to leave when the child is crying,
would be ideal if you could get somebody in so you are not really leaving the child in a strange place.
We are just going to have,
that's unusual.
to see how things work out.
I am trying to, leave her a fair amount, even at this young age, with her grandparents, just to,
go to a movie and things like that. So that she is used to other people taking care of her.
Is it your parents or your husband's parents?
My parents,
my husband's parents are in France.
it's a little bit harder
she's met them already.
Not that she will remember them,
she's met them.
That's nice when,
I have three grandchildren,
another one coming in September,
probably go crazy.
like that,
Are they all nearby?
if, do not have to put them in child care, an ideal situation for you, is to stay with them
you can set up your work program and your husband's so that one of you is there all the time.
wonderful for the child.
if I work part time that might be doable.
Right .
look at what your options are look at offer,
drop in at times that are unexpected.
right now the situation is so tight at many places,
that it's even hard to have a choice.
since this is,
people before they get pregnant are finding child care for the kids .
I just find that incredible.
my sister in law is going to have a baby very, very soon
she is intending to stay home with the baby.
maybe do some free lance type work at home.
if I go back to work on a part time basis, I am hoping I can leave my daughter with her.
that would be wonderful.
Because, her daughter again will be a couple of months, my daughter will be about six months older than hers.
it will be a little rough when she is a very, very little infant,
when she is a month or so, my sister in law has had lots and lots of experience dealing with baby sitting for large families.
she might be able to do it a couple of hours a day
we even be able to do it on a trade off basis. That I watch,
their baby when they want to go out to dinner or to movies or whatever,
or if she wants an afternoon off.
Even if she wants an afternoon just to work.
and not be bothered,
we might be able to exchange that way.
we will just have to see how things work out.
business should have the,
I do too.
day care centers there, whether it's the parents who take turns watching the kids, or whether
they hire a couple of people
parents come down to supervise or,
Really well trained people.
some kind of real good program,
set up so that go you can be assured that if there's an emergency that person in charge knows C P R or first aid
have some kind of program set up, like you say, to stimulate the kids, or educate them in some manner. And have the, the right toys and the right setting and, have, organized type of program set up so that the kids have a schedule,
that's real important to little kids.
my daughter does not seem to be on a real schedule yet,
it's probably my fault, because I do not have a real schedule now.
adjust to what the parents (( )) .
she's been staying up late at night and,
sleeping late in the mornings and things (( is )) just fine by me .
you know that works until they start school.
that's a problem,
society is geared to day person
I have another friend who's brother and his wife have done this,
they stay up until all hours of the night.
All right,
why don't you go ahead first and tell what kind of car you'd look for in your next.
I think economy car that gets really good mileage and, one that's really reliable.
probably not brand new car,
maybe something like a Nissan Sentra.
Or something like that,
something my husband,
of course, it has to have air conditioning .
air conditioning and a radio, A M, F M and a cassette player
what else do I want .
Does it have to be a special color? .
I would think kind of a subdued color would be nice.
navy blue or a,
It sounds like something your husband would drive, right? .
that's what it would be for is for him to drive back and forth to work.
I don't think we're looking for another car right now because we just bought one,
when we were looking we were looking for something that had enough seat belts, of course,
we wanted air conditioning and a five speed
that was kind of iffy,
that made it better economically,
I think that's something we might want, too, is some kind of standard transmission
at least rather than automatic.
We'll probably have to look for another second car sometime
we'd look for about what you're looking for.
probably real cheap, too.
It wouldn't be a car,
no .
I think we would want one that, even though it was a compact car or whatever that it would still be nice enough that, you could take someone in it and not be embarrassed .
Would you like four doors
doesn't really matter.
probably that would be a good idea,
hard for people to get in with a two door sometimes.
That's right.
if we wanted it to take people out a good thought.
that hadn't crossed my mind.
It would be fun just to win one, wouldn't it ?
I would go for that.
That would be great.
All right,
I think that's all that we need to say.
thank you for calling.
All right,
we'll talk to you later.
All right.
Bye bye.
are you there?
Do you know the question for today?
It's about why there aren't more people that are voting and participating in ...
what is your feeling?
Do you think this is vital important?
Do you,
I think that, it's kind of discouraging to,
I have been involved in some political campaigns and that kind of thing,
it's really discouraging to be in a phone bank and call people and not,
a lot of them are so ill informed they have no idea, even that there's an election
these are people that are registered.
It, I have worked in some campaigns
it's the most discouraging thing in the world.
I'm originally from Oklahoma,
up there if they miss three elections, then they have to reregister.
I have often wondered maybe that would help the situation.
I don't know.
that's a thought.
can you come up with anything else that maybe we could do to these people?
I don't know
like that idea.
I had a thought just a second ago
it slipped my mind.
that's all right.
probably one of the reasons that people don't vote more is because they don't know the candidates.
I think sometimes,
that's one thing that I have learned elections and things is, sometimes even when you work for someone you don't really know what they're like.
I know there's been a couple of people that we voted for and worked for
when they got in office it was just a disaster .
I'm not sure how you go about really finding out what people are really like before you vote for them.
not sur ,
the only thing is if they don't vote, they have no right to complain.
It is,
I don't know why we are so complacent,
I'm going to vote each time.
Right or wrong I'm going to cast a ballot
if I'm unhappy with it, I have the right to express my opinion.
That's right.
there was something else I was going to,
I'm like you.
I've just lost a train of thought that I had.
they have been in Oklahoma with having this program that you vote or you lose it.
one election?
of course, a long time apart
I think that's an excellent idea because then people really have to think about it.
Of course,
of this no excuse absentee balloting?
No excuse.
I'm not sure if I'm familiar with that,
or not.
I'm sure all over the State of Texas now you have three weeks to go for absentee balloting.
you don't have to sick, out of town or anything.
is no excuse.
Anyone can go and vote.
I think that's great.
Do you?
Actually, my husband has run for office before
sometimes it's nice to be able to go ahead of time and vote because, if you're going to be tied up that day, campaigning or whatever it might be. that takes that load off,
you can just go ahead and get that taken care of
that is an excuse
this idea of anyone wel ,
so bitterly opposed to this.
If you're busy, that has always been a legitimate excuse.
If you are incapacitated, ill health,
to have the expense of,
let's see.
They have five, six people at my polling place.
They can come from all over the city,
I don't know why we couldn't have duplicate voting on some of this.
hopefully checked them off the list
do have to check them off a list
I know.
when they vote
hopefully they couldn't.
list checked as thoroughly as a,
back in,
when I lived ...
this is a subject that you never think you'll be assigned to .
No .
One that kind of comes up when you've lost subjects.
as I was sitting there, I thought, the weather's been perfect.
I don't know much to say about it.
for the balloon festival here in Plano it was just gorgeous.
I'm from Plano also.
Are you?
It couldn't have been better.
That's right.
it didn't foul one launch,
that's kind of unusual,
it's kind of cold in the mornings
you dress up warm,
That's the only thing wrong I can find with it.
I just got back from Dayton.
I spent the weekend in Ohio with my family
how fun.
the trees are changing color there.
I miss that,
as soon as we got out of the cloud cover.
Of course it wasn't sunny like it is here.
It was real gray
as soon as the plane got through the clouds
I saw all those trees,
it just really made me realize how much I miss the fall.
I don't complain weather wise though, because it was also thirty five degrees there yesterday morning,
the high was only fifty,
it was supposed to drop and get sleet in the afternoon
it was nice to get off the plane where it was in the seventies.
I guess you have to take some things and leave some things.
That's right.
I'm from Utah area,
have tons of canyons where the leaves change
they're gorgeous
you could spend every weekend of the fall going to a different area.
We did that when we lived up in Michigan.
We went up to the upper peninsula,
they actually printed out maps of routes you could take so you would get maximum leaf exposure.
on leaf weekends bumper to bumper traffic,
people as
whoever was driving could never have a prayer of looking at the leaves, because they had to keep watching the road.
it's kind of hazardous for driving
that's for sure.
I can't complain.
I don't know if I've been spoiled.
I've been thinking it's getting cold sooner than normal.
We've only lived here a couple of years.
I think it is,
my family said that in Ohio there was just an article on, at the T V news that they are three weeks ahead of schedule
as far as the coldness of the temperatures and, the first frost,
everything just happened three weeks early this year.
We'll have to see how it goes,
a couple of weeks ago we were cooler than normal,
then we're back to being warmer than normal this week, or last week,
Just so we don't have one of those famous ice storms
in the spring.
I don't have to live through of those really,
a bad,
nothing comparable, I guess, to what you've had before.
I've only been here just a short time, too,
I haven't been through
any of those either,
I have in Michigan,
in Michigan you can get twelve inches of snow
life goes on.
You're right.
as I understand it here, if there's anything, they'll call off schools close businesses.
they get ice,
no one can drive on ice.
we used to think they were pansies,
then when you decided what ice was .
the real definition of ice .
I think we've discussed it good enough today.
I think so.
It was,
It was nice talking with you.
It was good talking to you.
Maybe we'll get the next time.
Take care.
Bye bye.
My name's Gail.
I'm calling from Texas.
I'm Sandy.
I'm in Texas, too.
what a deal.
Took long enough to find you.
seems like they take forever any more,
did you hear what the topic was
did she tell you,
if you're ready, then, I'll just go ahead and start.
hold on .
I guess we're supposed to talk about the changing roles of women.
Seems like, to me, everything is just changing so much that it's almost like, you can't keep up with things any more,
everyone's striving so much to make it equal between men and women,
I personally, I'm a stay home mom,
I like it the way it used to be.
So am I.
Are you,
I think it's kind of coming back around to that, don't you,
that there's a lot more people that stay home now than before,
I guess more than anything I think maybe people were just kind of wanting to have the choice of what they could do,
I don't know,
I think sometimes some of women's lib though, is kind of like they wanted it all,
you can't have everything
there's no way I could have a career and then be the kind of mom that I want to be
to me that's more important.
many kids do you have?
Are they young,
Five and two.
Five and two.
I have two,
mine are two and nine months,
home is real,
just am fortunate because I don't know a real lot of moms that get to stay home,
weird that I was just talking to somebody this morning
these people have secretaries and these high power jobs,
it just seems like,
told me now her daughter took her first steps at the day care,
I, I just don't agree with that.
I think it should be that people should get back to staying home being oriented not.
it seems like everybody's always so busy with everything that they're doing that there's no time for this and that and the other,
I hope it just doesn't get to where, there's going into the work force.
I agree,
hate for them to make people feel bad that have to work, too, saying, you should stay home, otherwise your children aren't going to, turn out, or whatever
because that's not fair to, the single moms that have to work,
if they wouldn't be able to make ends meet
not working or whatever,
I think it's got to be a personal choice,
it's nice we could have the choice to stay home.
I find that whenever I'm in a group of people and we're discussing things,
just over the weekend I visited my family, and some cousins I hadn't seen in a long time,
everyone's all interested in what everybody's doing,
I had my baby with me,
I found that all I talked about was my baby,
which was fine with me,
it's like, here these people are,
they're going to school, getting degrees, making all this money,
they kind of looked at me like I was from the dark ages, because I didn't have really all that much to talk about, where career and things like that were concerned,
you kind of feel little bit like an outcast for a while
in social situations sometimes,
which is too bad, because, obviously I don't get paid for my job,
I should get paid at least double what my husband makes working in an office for staying home
Yeah .
that's what I figure,
I'm worth a lot just for what I do every day,
I don't know,
this is kind of a,
least here I've noticed,
I'm not from here,
I'm from Colorado,
I've really noticed that there are people that are more comfortable, at least, with some women being home at least in the circles I've travelled and in the church that I go to,
men don't treat you like you don't know anything, generally
Yeah .
I think a lot of companies are realizing this and offering more opportunities as far as job sharing or, even having a day care on site and that kind of stuff,
I think that's really important
they do that
they realize there's a need for that,
I don't know,
I found when I did do some work when my son was young, it was like contract work,
it wasn't where I had to be there every day,
we were going to the doctor once a week,
I don't know how you could have a full time job and ever have any vacation time to do anything besides go to the doctor.
I can see where that would definitely hinder the problem,
Do you see anything wrong with public school systems?
I do.
I think I'm concerned about the large number of children that each teacher is expected deal with in some quality way.
I think maybe we've given our teachers a almost impossible job.
I agree.
Do you?
Do you have children in the public school system?
I taught for fourteen years
Is that right.
before we moved to Texas,
one thing I see is changing is I was held accountable so much
I had to document and create a paper chase for all of my students,
instead of spending my time coming up with creative learning stations and things like that I was filling out all these forms
You were a bookkeeper .
for all the children
everything had to be documented,
I had file cabinets that weren't filled with neat stuff for kids,
it was filled with documentation
three years toward a teaching degree and am trying to get headed back,
I'm just really in a dilemma if that's what,
I love to work with children and
Me, too.
to teach them,
I'm really having questions I can deal with that system have a good conscience about, what I do.
it's the teachers,
I think it's the system
I think so too.
They're so worried about lawsuits and the scores the children get on tests now
and teacher competency,
it's not like the teacher can just get in there and do her best,
she's always worried whose looking over her shoulder
What child's going to say something
That's right.
some parent's going to overreact to
I know.
hard on the children too,
I think, because teachers are overworked
just like a mommy that's overworked
That's right.
you're not at your best,
Do you have children in the system?
I have two,
I have, in the system
one is in ninth grade
one is in seventh grade,
I'm home schooling my kindergartner this year.
We, live in a district that has open classrooms,
I wasn't particularly comfortable with that for her.
Are you in Plano?
I am too.
You too.
I have one in ninth grade at Clark
one at Hendrick this year,
my, sixth grader came from an open classroom at Matthews,
the very first year I taught back in seventy three, we had open classroom
it didn't work then
when we moved down here, I was just appalled that they were still doing
Still at it.
it here,
the explanation I given about,
seemed to admit that it wasn't working,
they didn't have the money to restructure,
looks to me that it wouldn't take really that much money to at least come up with, some kind of partitions
or just to face the children different directions or to do something
I know last year my son had to eat in the classroom because there was no cafeteria at his school
he spent all day
in this one large open area,
I didn't really care for that.
It seems like the schools in Michigan were much better than they are down here.
Were they?
That was our last tour, in Michigan.
we were from North, Carolina,
of course Carolina has a terrible reputation as far as education.
I think they rank about forty ninth
our children got a very good education there
they were in the magnet school program,
changed classes several times during the day, which has its pros and cons,
a lot of their classes there were only eight or ten children in their classes
it was wonderful
I'm coming Plano thinking, gosh, it's going to be really great,
it's ranked so much better .
that's right.
We heard wonderful things about it until we actually got in the system.
Isn't that interesting,
I don't understand how they get reputation unless it's just that they spend a lot of money,
I don't know.
Probably so, on publicity and letting realtors know and key people how wonderful the schools are
I guess so.
my son is at Clark this year too,
As a freshman?
he's pleased with his classes.
I don't guess I've been in the high school long enough know what to expect really
how to judge it.
My daughter seems to be having a good time,
she was absent with strep throat the last three days,
I ran over and picked up her report card,
she did very good,
that's good.
she seems to be studying and has just about the right amount of home work I would expect
for a freshman to have.
She's not bogged down,
yet she has some every night.
Eric seems to have quite a few nights where he doesn't have any,
that's interesting,
grades, I haven't seen them yet,
supposedly they're good,
you always hear how good.
Now my son's at,
junior high and says that his grades are going to be wonderful
who knows what he's going to bring home.
That's right.
I did hear the end of the prompt this time.
Was that you, that we didn't hear the whole prompt?
it said do we think that cri , certain crimes should fit certain punishments,
I was thinking about it after I got off the phone, I really, wish that there was some way to, send a message to people, about, child abuse and things like that
those kind of crimes deserve some kind of severe punishment.
Too often I feel that people get off,
agree with you, although I will say,
I'm not sure,
I sometimes have a problem with some of the, especially more famous people who all of a sudden are crawling out of the woodwork to say that whatever problems they have, because they were children.
the parents are saying, Hey, wait a minute,
we didn't do anything like that
I guess before I'd like to see that severe of a punishment for it it has to be absolute certainty
like, caught at it, or something
if severely beat up on a child, I would have absolutely no problem at all
I don't buy the routine, they're just sick,
they were abused when they were little
forget that.
sometimes they even wonder criminals plead temporary insanity for crimes that are so severe
and then, they get sent to a mental institution
they play loony for a while,
they're back out in public.
I can't see that either.
I don't feel that that should be any excuse at all or any deterrent ag ,
reason to not use capital punishment.
I agree,
I agree,
if I wanted to badly enough, I could convince somebody, I was crazy ,
my family may say that on occasion,
who knows
don't think it's that hard to do
convince somebody that, Gee, you just had no control over what you were doing,
too, they can always be blaming the other person,
she looked like my mother who abused me when I was a child, or
something, which I think is, unfortunate for that person
and yet shouldn't be an excuse.
I guess, a lot of,
I was just seeing in the newspaper or the grocery store that some Miss America was abused by the man she loved
That's the new one.
Is that the new,
I just happened to see the headline on it,
I realize if it was the husband or the father or what,
I thought, are being abused, wondering how our school system is failing, that they're not even seeing this,
if it was that severe that when they're later in life adults, that it's all of a sudden affecting them in this way, that it wasn't shown up at all when they were younger,
worries me with my kids only being under two and not having, deal with that yet,
yet, did you ever in your life when you were little know anybody or hear anything of anything like this?
I lived in California
(( )) .
which I feel like California,
anything can go on in California.
Ye ,
was from conservative Wisconsin ,
nothing on it,
which makes me wonder, if it's as, prevalent some of them claim.
it, it's,
you just don't know,
it all,
unless they're caught in the act or the child is very badly, beaten up, it comes down to a one word against the other
that type thing.
Texas, is capital punishment for,
it used to be just capital murder,
now added mass murder.
Are those the only two things that we,
I really would have no idea. really know.
I have a feeling it is,
think there ought to be more things added to it.
that would be pretty lenient in my opinion.
killing a child, or kidnapping,
possibly not,
I guess kidnapping maybe if the person gets very badly hurt,
if they release them two hours later, he probably doesn't deserve the death penalty,
that's, that,
I'll just go with you first.
What kind of
eating out do you enjoy?
I like dining out.
Of course, it means that I don't have to cook.
Right .
I'm a divorced woman.
I have one child
we dine out we go to medium priced restaurants.
I think it's sort of a waste of money to go high priced restaurant.
Do you go home cooking, like Black Eyed Pea and that kind of thing or
Not really.
We go for the, Chinese
Me too .
and Italian
and stuff like that. Mexican, stuff
that I can't cook .
we do too.
We do the same.
What are your favorite places?
I like Chinese food.
there's a little place down on, Coit Road, (( Chinese Pavilion )) or something.
That is really good
I like it.
like Chinese buffets.
to August Moon
we think that was real good
our favorite when you have a little more to spend, is to go to Taiwan or May Dragon.
those are excellent.
They're really a nice place you could take someone to eat.
It's not rinky Chinese decorations
it's a very elegant nice place to eat.
out for fajitas.
my husband has just gotten stuck.
Oh .
we go to On the Border.
And lots of places that have, I think (( ))
some of those and get fajitas,
he'll just eat chips until we've got three or four baskets coming back.
last weekend we went out for Italian also,
for some reason the cooler weather makes me tend to want to go eat lasagna and garlic bread .
we went to El Sorrento.
Ha ,
have you ever,
It was fun.
tried Pappasito's?
You know, what?
real funny you said that because we were coming back Sunday on Central from church
Bob pointed to it
he said, "I keep hearing good things about that place,
we're going to have to go."
it is delicious.
That's what he,
tha ,
in fact, you're about the third or fourth person in the last month that said that.
I guess we'll have to do it.
you always stand in line when you go
it's worth the wait.
D MAGAZINE said that.
It said there was always a line.
that's a good sign.
have you ever tried, the Macaroni Grill up on,
we did.
my kids didn't like it because they just wanted to get plain old spaghetti
or lasagna,
most of those things were a little more northern Italy.
they like just the traditional.
They're not very,
they're the Spaghetti Warehouse type.
they are.
Exactly .
The place of the seventies .
my little girl likes, Spaghetti Warehouse
real well .
most kids do.
It's real entertaining for her.
W ,
do you ever go for steak? Just a steak and potato and salad bar, that kind of thing.
not really.
something that I cook at home.
you grill out
I really don't particularly,
real curious to try this one that has such (( )) commercials. Del Lincoln
what is that guy's name?
They do those real corny commercials.
there in Addison.
I can't remember his name.
Anyhow it's some,
it's some famous steak place over in Addison.
second one downtown,
they have these really corny radio commercials
steak is supposed to be wonderful.
not tried that.
My husband was saying that up north they have such nice restaurants where you can go after a theater or after the movie.
it seems like I've been,
found those one time
they discontinued.
It was over in Addison.
they, closed up .
most of these places are pretty much just, theme restaurants
I think that's what
around here.
right now Dallas area.
Of course, down, next to downtown up around McKinney and everything
different class
that's exactly true .
of restaurants up there
That's right.
that I can't even touch.
That's right.
That's right.
it would probably take my whole paycheck just to go in and
That's e ,
that's right.
have one meal
up there
I had a friend who was taken to Lawry's downtown
for prime rib
I haven't been.
We usually don't go for beef really anymore.
we've gotten so used to doing chicken and things at home that usually the way we'll go
if we're not going lasagna.
I go out, normally to get, some specialty type of food
besides, chicken and
steaks and everything I grill at home.
I know.
I understand.
really a lot better than what I get in the restaurant .
That's right,
save you some money too .
That's right.
Saves you a little bit money.
child's favorite place to eat?
favorite place,
she has a lot,
Taco Bell .
yeah .
They're easy .
that's right.
Yeah .
That's right.
mine enjoy that too.
They like to go pretty much where we like to go
our favorite thing on Fridays, we generally order pizza in
not Pizza Inn, but pizza to our house.
(( we've )) done.
is there anything else you'd like to discuss about it?
not that I know of.
come to an (( eye )) conclusion
I'll talk with you later.
Thank you.
thank you.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
Now we're ready.
Do you have a personal computer?
We have one.
You do, in your home?
yes, ma'am.
I do not have one in my home.
I use one all day at work,
I don't have one at home.
Do you wish you,
Do you find you use it a lot?
I don't use it as much as my children and my husband do.
husband and I are taking a class at our local junior college called computers one o one
we're just touching on data base, spreadsheets and word processing and just storage
we're just kind of touching on a basic
What kind do you have?
We have an I B M compatible.
It's a Gateway brand
that we bought mainly for our children to have educational programs.
that sounds interesting.
What kind of a computer do you use at work?
I have P S one I B M type.
I use it all day at work
I put all my personal stuff on it at work .
I really had a need for one at home
probably if I didn't have access to one all the time at work, I'd want one at home.
I worked on my airline Apollo Focal Point computer for about four years.
Which was different .
I didn't,
What is that the flights and things?
How long are we supposed to talk on this?
They tell us when we're through.
This is,
They come in and tell us.
Have you just started doing this?
This is my very first time.
They'll come in and tell us that the switchboard is full now
it's time for you to wind up in the next thirty seconds or something like that.
It's not more than five min , ,
I'm going to ignore that.
That's a call on my other line,
I'm just going to ignore it.
It's kind of a hassle when you have this,
other times it.
do you work?
I work at Texas Instruments.
you do?
of course.
I sure do.
Of course.
That's making these calls, right?
I'm doing this at home.
I'm already home for the day.
I see.
this is a pretty good deal.
at work.
I work in the legal department
I'm pretty busy.
I use my P C there mostly for creating legal documents.
We use Word Perfect, Lotus.
you do know Lotus,
that's great.
That's something we want to learn.
it's really,
I love Lotus.
I think that's about my favorite.
I've heard that people that finally learn how to use it really like it.
That's great.
It really is,
I know there's still a hundred things I don't know how to do on it.
you learn something every time you use it.
I have a question.
On this survey or whatever,
I volunteered for.
Do I start calling in myself
do I wait for people to call me?
You can,
did they give you a number to call?
eight hundred number.
You can start calling in whenever it's convenient for you
you can only make one call a day.
only one a day.
if you've talked to someone, like you're talking to me now
and I place the call, this counts as your call.
you cannot make a call now until tomorrow.
I see.
then, do you get the five bucks
do I?
we both do.
we both do.
Didn't they
ask you for your I D number when you answered?
I had to put that in.
you both do.
that's a pretty good deal.
From what I understand.
are we doing this?
It's for research.
Actually, I'm doing this for a friend of mine.
It's a research type project on
voice activated electronics,
It's almost like that,
they call it the speech lab that is setting this thing up.
Like a voice command
computer type
They're doing research for a lot of big companies from what I understand on this.
I don't know,
that's wonderful.
I don't know everything about it
they, try to get as many people as they possibly can to contribute to this
that way they can check voice patterns.
I see,
different kinds of voices and things.
get the computer where it recognizes voices.
See that's why interesting because an accent .
I probably do because I've,
think that I don't.
to you
and raised in Texas.
Have lived here forever
I probably do.
you're in what city?
I'm in Richardson.
It's right outside of Dallas.
lives in Plano.
that's right outside of,
Richardson's right between Dallas and Plano.
How about that.
I probably went through Richardson, then.
You probably did.
I have a sister that lives in Austin.
what are you doing way in Washington?
we're actually all from Nebraska.
They just are recently moved there.
My brother in law is director of Admissions at the University of Texas
in Dallas.
that's interesting.
my sister works at the Air Force Base.
I imagine they use personal computers.
Actually, yes,
they both have personal computers.
Do they do their correspondence on it?
I think they just send Christmas letters on it.
As far as I,
mostly my one sister uses hers for her children.
children's games.
what I believe is one of the major that is wrong with our public school system is that, we do not have enough discipline
the parents do not let the teachers discipline the children the way that they need to be
disciplined right now.
I agree with that.
when I went to school, I know I was scared to death
You were?
about being disciplined,
the discipline that my daughter receives now
in going to school is just totally different.
I did not see anybody in my classrooms, when I was going to school, act up the way that kids do
these days in the classroom.
From what I understand, they act up pretty bad .
that's right,
that's right.
What, grade is your daughter in?
daughter's in the, fourth grade
there's children in her classroom that just totally disrupt
the classroom, where the teacher cannot teach
when I went to school that just wasn't put up with.
They always had a paddle in our school.
just don't do that any more.
I know.
the school system's afraid of getting sued
and, all sorts of lawsuits I'm sure because of things like that.
I also believe even though I feel like I pay a good share towards the school system, that the teachers are still underpaid
we still don't have enough money towards
put in toward public school.
I think that if we had enough money and paid the teachers a little bit more, that maybe that could solve some of our problems.
Wasn't that what part of the lottery is going to go for, if we
approve it?
supposedly that's what it's suppose to go for,
we'll just have to wait and see whether that's approved or not.
I don't know your feelings toward that.
I guess we shouldn't get into that
what else,
I think in some ways that they need to be more careful of the teachers that they hire.
I have heard stories, from other parents that I know of,
that teachers are out there giving drugs and selling drugs,
heard some stories about school teachers
to more careful of the teachers that we place in our school.
that's basically about all that I know that may be wrong with the school system.
they're doing a pretty good job right now.
I do too,
I think they're doing real good job.
then, what do I know,
You don't have any children in school?
I don't have any kids.
Don't have any kids.
none at all .
this is probably a real hard subject for you.
yeah .
I guess, we can discontinue our call now.
It was a joy in talking with you.
it was good talking to you too.
We'll see you,
bye bye.
what do you know about Latin American policies?
I think they're kind of ambivalent, really.
I just have a feeling that we've kind of talked out of both sides of mouths down there like we do in some other situations
half the time we don't know who to support.
Are you, relating this, to the, affair we've got going on in Haiti right now?
That, and, tough for a big powerful nation to deal countries like that that depend on us so much
just it.
It's got to be tough,
have to, let them know how you feel.
I guess my concern, side we take , we're going to have supporters and we're going to have, antisupporters, I guess, for lack of better term,
like you said, they're such small countries, that we're bound to upset somebody,
we seem to be lacking the ability to take a stance.
it worries me that, the economy of so many countries South America and Central America depend on something that damages people, cocaine
from Columbia,
, of course sure we have some enemies down there who wouldn't care what happened to us,
That's true.
a tough deal,
I don't think that,
I'm reflecting how I feel about it,
I have a feeling really don't understand basically the competing factions in lot of those countries
they've been hammering (( )) , for the last, you know, ten centuries,
it's still going on,
dabble in it just enough to make both sides angry at us some how,
some times,
that's about the lump sum of it.
I was speaking with woman
the Honduras or Guatemala, or somewhere in there,
she was from El Salvador
she was from a relatively wealthy family,
when, the Contras came into power, of course with,
gosh darn, what's his face,
he's Florida jail now,
I'm blank on it.
you know who I'm talking about.
I can see his face (( )) forget his name .
know it,
anyway, when he came into power, he basically just took everybody's property, just assigned it to himself.
kind of nationalized it
for himself,
she's been a real strong supporter of the Sandinistas and has been trying to back the U S government in that respect,
in that respect I have to agree that I think we're taking the right stance
because they were a democracy turned,
basically a dictator fascist.
it seems like those countries are so easily susceptible to that kind of thing,
it just
what do you think of, this, U S free trade agreement we're working on with Mexico?
I think it's long overdue
I just,
there's so much difference the economies of the two countries, a problem, with whether it's going to work or not,
this may be unfair to Mexico,
it seems like there's a lack of honesty foreign policy a lot of the times.
they're really trying, the Mexican government is trying,
a lot of the larger Mexican businesses are trying to, make themselves Americanized, I guess
which is great because that's what they basically need to do.
The big problem with the United States is we have our basic nine to five schedule
we don't have the Siesta,
the cultural differences it's what's really hurting, the Mexican people, because they've had their way of life,
we've had our way of life,
I think version of the good old boy network going that,
has a lot,
let me just start by asking what you think of this Middle East affair we've got going on?
I think that it's time that we concentrate more on what's going on within our own borders than what's going on in the Middle East.
I have to agree with you there.
think that, for once, even be these Mid East talks because, with the exception of our hostages, in deciding who's land it is.
Just let these people fight it out
I agree.
we've got so many domestic problems,
what does it cost these people over there,
how about the Soviet Union.
What do you think's going to happen there.
The break ups?
I think that's great.
I'm glad to see that,
don't want to see us pour because don't know,
a believer in the old adage that if somebody earns something it's worth more to them than if you give it to them,
not much in favor of it,
I'm glad to see us advising them
that doesn't seem to cost a whole lot of money.
That's right,
that's right.
I'm ready to have a President elected that at least has some sort of a domestic agenda,
even if it doesn't work, at least he is somebody is working on that problem.
haven't seen that in the last eleven years,
all I've seen.
they don't seem to have a clue.
Reagan obviously wasn't too concerned with the domestic side of his political affairs.
think Bush's kind of followed suit.
international is important,
we've got a budget deficit that just won't go away unless it gets seriously addressed.
there's the homeless issue,
there really is a lot we could be doing stateside without, hurting our international aspects or straining any international relations I think,
we wouldn't have to spend the billions and billions of dollars each year that we're spending.
I agree.
once we started economic aid overseas we have really set ourselves up to be sort of world bank,
as far as aid is concerned,
I think there's a limit,
we passed it a long time ago.
I agree.
We've been writing off way too many bad debts
country bad debts.
That's another thing I don't understand is things like selling technology and, even military hardware to foreign governments and then forgiving their debt
to me that just doesn't make any sense,
much in debt as we are
I know it.
I think it's definitely time for a change,
I don't see anybody,
I don't understand, too, why we have to have Democrats and Republicans,
it's either one way or the other,
it to be we're turning into a black and white society,
you either do it this way
you do it that way,
there's no in between
That's right,
you're either liberal or you're conservative,
obviously isn't working.
I think, it wouldn't hurt,
I know the Independent Party's been trying for years to get a real force in Congress,
you're right,
there's just too many issues that come up that, our senators and our congressmen vote on simply because it's a Democratic issue or it's a Republican issue
if they would vote with their conscience and with what their constituents feel, I think, we might have a lot more efficient running government and a lot better laws passed.
I agree with you.
of course, we have the national embarrassment in our state, Jessie Helms,
as soon we can get,
of course it seems to me that every time he opens his mouth, just lines up people against him
often that you see him swaying too many opinions.
He's, usually on the ninety eight to two side,
he's the one of the two that votes,
He's one of the two,
very ineffective, I think.
let's see,
Senators are in for six years, right
when did you guys vote him into office?
unfortunately nineteen ninety.
you're stuck.
we're stuck with him for
a little while longer,
unfortunately for him, but maybe fortunately for us, his health is not great,
I hate,
what do you do on your yard?
typical lawn stuff.
Saint Augustine,
with a little Bermuda mixed in in some of the sunny areas
really all I do to it is,
in fact, I didn't even fertilize it this year,
I just mowed it,
mow it, with a mulch mower so particles fall down
Comes back in the yard
you don't have any one do your yard.
You do it yourself?
I do it myself.
we do too.
Have a lot of people trying to do it for me .
Isn't that the truth.
A flyer's on every door every day.
Hey, I need the exercise,
what the heck.
That's right.
my husband does the same thing,
he does the yard,
he wants me to learn how to work the lawn mower,
I keep putting off learning.
Hey, you've got the right idea.
That's right.
I had recently gone out and planted mums.
We had decided to paint the front of the house about three weeks ago,
while my husband was painting I went out and bought about fifty dollars worth of mums over at Calloway's
and put out yellow and bronze
they're just gorgeous, then last week my mom comes in town,
she says those are going to die just the first frost.
She said, You should have done pansies.
I went, now you tell me.
Yeah .
the first night, that around Halloween
we went out and covered them with a sheet,
they did okay that first night.
the second night we were at the movies and didn't do it,
I guess I've lost them.
I haven't gone out to check yet.
I don't blame you.
I wouldn't want to look at them.
the worst problem we've had here with this grass was about the third year we were here.
I guess it was about four years ago.
we did not know in August to put down the, whatever it is for grub worms.
the next spring, I guess in that March, every time we would go out and just try to walk on the grass or reach down to pull a weed, we'd have big whole patches come up.
Have you ever seen it
what grub worms do?
we pulled up almost half of our yard just by raking it,
it would just come off in the rake, down to the dirt.
we had to go out and resod the whole thing with squares and wet it and put it down and rope it off and everything.
It took a lot of money and a lot of time,
the most careful thing we do on our yard every August is put down that Diazinon.
think that's what it was,
we found them
we found them.
We dug under there about an inch
you could see them.
They're real fat little white things,
they said they turn into black bugs in the spring
those kind of brown, Ju ,
What we call June bugs
some people call them May beetles.
June bugs is what I'd heard them called,
occasionally I find them in the flower beds.
They said that every yard has some
it was a preponderance of them that caused our problem.
that's the number one thing we do, whether we fertilize or anything else, just because we got burned so badly before.
I had some of that problem,
mine was freeze.
that too,
two years ago, or last Christmas
is that what you're talking about?
I'm still
I'm still replacing that in the back, especially, under the trees
kind of slow, and, as you say, very expensive.
I caught Wolfe with, of the sales where they have those big blocks for fifty cents,
I bought about twenty of them.
I guess you did too.
It's what they've done in the spring
I put,
or the fall.
that was late,
that was like,
because I started to say, there's different times they say it's okay to do it.
that was like September, I think.
I had to water it,
keep it damp.
out here, we don't have as many trees in Plano,
at least the area where,
we're over by Collin Creek Mall,
a lot of the shrubbery that we have in the front, like the pittosporum all died,
all those variegated, things died.
we pretty much go with that dwarf Yaupon and that Yaupon holly,
they just live,
they're pretty tough,
stand those.
Pittosporum is kind of borderline here
usually it'll do pretty well,
every once in a while we get one of these really cold deals
it zaps it.
it's kind of like one of these,
ligustrum is the same way.
Same way,
they warned me of that one finally.
I said, you need to either read Neal Sperry's book before you shop or get a reputable nursery, because lot of places are just trying to sell whatever was pretty out there,
we didn't know the difference.
every year we learn one more thing that we didn't know before. Like about these mums.
next year, I'll do pansies.
Your list is growing,
my backyard, we had it really nice,
then my husband wanted a Labrador puppy,
it was about,
I guess he's three now,
the first summer he was here he dug up all of my bushes and plants
and brought them to the front door and the back door and laid them on the patio.
it's like our backyard is just kind of like,
as long as he won't damage it, fine,
hurt, we just don't put it out there any more.
kind of cuts your possibilities for the flower beds,
Very much,
I small vegetable garden that,
You did.
It did pretty well,
on the
side, the apron parkway out behind the garage
garages come in
So do ours,
a little piece of land over there .
What did you grow?
I had, tomatoes peppers,
I had,
That is amazing.
I had okra,
by the fence I had cucumbers, didn't do real well,
they kind of came out looking like gourds.
put them in a salad, though,
you say, I made it though, at least it's mine.
I had squash,
I had zucchini yellow crook neck squash,
I guess my initial view is our tax burden hasn't gone down in recent years
among industrialized nations we have one of the lowest the world,
in (( ))
of the matter,
you get what you pay for,
if we're going to have national health insurance, which seems likely, it's necessarily going to involve more taxes.
the view that cutting income tax rates has been good for economy, that most other countries have a higher share of the tax burden in various kinds of sales taxes, energy taxes, particularly, and that to the extent we need to raise more taxes, that's the direction we should look.
I guess I kind of have mixed feelings .
you always sit there
out of each pay check so much comes out of it,
you wonder, where's it all going
Where's it all going?
we have such a huge, national deficit,
I guess a lot of times there's questions wondering if it's doing a whole lot of good.
I know there's a lot of social programs out there that need help.
you kind of always wonder, the money going? .
one of the big tax that has gone up a lot in this year is the social security tax
which in principle is going a big trust fund,
that is a particularly regressive tax,
it's a tax on the first dollar earnings,
Senator Moynihan's, proposal to cut there I think a lot of sense.
I'm sorry,
I couldn't.
I think Senator Moynihan's proposal cut the social security tax which isn't really beef up the social security program could make a lot of sense.
I agree with that.
As far as other countries, keep up on it too much as to far they're do ,.
I know
we were in Ireland last year
I know that the tax there is extremely high, much higher than we pay here,
as far as other countries, I'm not, up to par on .
is probably about equal to ours
other major countries are higher.
Our friends were amazed that of things when they went to Canada not so long ago.
as a whole, most other countries have a higher level of cradle to grave government services,
it's a
real trade offs there.
you sit there and wonder,
I guess this doesn't really have to do with taxes but just money in general, wondering if you're going to have enough when you retire to live on.
a scary thing that there's real knowing about.
there's a lot of inflation risk that isn't taken care of in most private pension plans.
that's true.
are you involved with the legislature up there,
I'm at the National Institute of Standards and Technology.
part of the Commerce Department.
Here in Gaithersburg, Maryland.
I was just wondering since you said Washington D C,
picked this topic,
I was just
kind of curious.
I didn't pick it,
you didn't.
don't really recall.
I may have filled out form,
have the feeling I've been given topics different from the ones that I mentioned before.
did you.
I haven't placed any calls.
Did they automatically assign the topic?
when you place a call
I didn't
topic is given to you.
know that.
I thought whoever made the call could choose what topic,
I haven't made any calls yet.
I've just received some.
you should try it.
I didn't realize that .
rather controversial subject depend on who you're talking to.
many of the subjects are. especially.
one thing that has kept our tax burden high, level budget
same subject,
my name is Donna,
I'm calling from Plano, Texas.
this is Laurie,
I'm in Garland .
would you like me to go first?
I have three children, who are in regular school, eleven year old, an eight year old,
my little one, three year old, is in, a University of Gymnastics,
it's preschool
I think it was really hard pick the right, day care or preschool or Mother's Day Out.
I guess you can classify them all together.
some of the qualifications that I look for was the cost, and, exactly what they did, if it was structured or nonstructured, if they had a little academic, in there, and, what the qualifications of the teachers' were, and if the place was clean and
the hours
kind of going by word of mouth and finding out if anybody else has been pleased with their program
that kind of stuff.
we don't have any children,
we're going to have one next year .
that's something that I'm probably going to be looking at
maybe in the future.
We haven't quite decided if I'm going to,
I'm working part time now,
I don't know if I'll be doing that or what we're going to do.
Or staying home.
if we do, then I'm going to need to find somebody,
our church has a Mother's Day Out program
which they started last year,
we know a lot of people at the church
I would feel very confident with leaving
That's a very good place to start I think.
my child there .
the Mother's Day Out programs,
that's where Shannon had started, in a Mother's Day Out program
the churches always have I think, pretty good program,
you have to make sure apply pretty early, because very long waiting lists.
another question to ask is if they're, state certified
if the teachers have, their Master's degree child education and
child development.
kind of a structure is it going to be.
when your child's a little bit older, like a three year old
you'd be more concerned with if there's a type of care that it's torture for them to lay down and take a nap.
Is there a mandatory nap time?
Time, huh.
What they do at Shannon's school is have a video tape going,
they lay on these little mats,
if they fall asleep, they kind of let them sleep,
the teacher stays with the sleeping ones,
the other ones get up and go do something else.
she doesn't have to necessary take a nap there
it's kind of scary, I guess, because you hear so many bad things about day cares
That's true.
such a growing concern,
then there's a lot of good things you don't hear.
sometimes when the child's a lot younger, the church is a good program
sometimes you even consider, having a private person come to your own home when they're real little or
or something like that,
another consideration is what's the ratio teachers to
To children.
to children
because that makes, a difference,
if your child would be maybe sleeping in that crib all day,
just your child, do they just put any child in any crib
you would want, maybe, your child to have their own sheets all the time, and not have another
child use that bed
I'm sure that, whatever you decide, you'll be happy with.
Yeah .
it's exciting time to have a new one .
We're pretty excited.
I bet.
it's a little ways off in the future
I figure, I'd probably start asking
around at church
because I know they have a limit as to how old they can be can bring them in.
some, some places take them as infants, I guess, like eight weeks, even.
there's a place to look into,
a friend of mine who's a nurse telling about a wonderful new place that opened some place Fifteenth Street,
it's in Plano somewhere where,
nurses that used to work in the hospital take care of and then only up to like two years old
supposed to be really
some places just specialize in just real little ones
other ones, are the older children.
it is a difficult situation, I think.
little it's almost easier to leave them because when they're three and they're cry,
my name is Donna,
I'm from Plano, Texas.
I'm Jay in Dallas.
I, find exercise kind of a task, I guess I'd say.
I go to aerobics two days a week,
I also have three kids at home
they keep me pretty busy.
That keeps you plenty of exercise (( )) .
that gives me plenty of exercise,
I enjoy, walking outside and bicycling once in a while with the family.
Excuse me .
That's fine.
And yourself.
I walked and run morning.
I've sort of stopped here with the weather change,
it's about a thirty minute exercise every morning.
every morning.
my husband swims every day at lunch, which he loves doing
that would,
that's fantastic exercise.
he does it every day like a ritual.
Once in a while or if he has a business meeting or if to lunch, not go,
he goes, day,
He runs three mornings a week
he gets up about five
does deal,
some days he doesn't,
then maybe he'll catch up on the weekend and go for a run.
All right.
we (( )) .
I'd rather get a bicycle,
bike in the house, but didn't seem to use it enough,
somebody sold it in a garage sale,
I'd like to get a bike and just biking outside.
the bicycling is nice especially with the weather around here,
I know, both of, my husband and I both do it to just keep the pounds off.
We're getting up in age, I guess, in our late thirties
we need to
keep exercising just to be able to,
It keeps going,
I'm fifty five,
just gets worse.
You still want to eat,
I know.
you just,
I think you feel better, too, if you get on some program like that,
I go to this aerobics class two mornings a week,
I take my three year old with me.
There's a nursery there.
it's kind of another day out for her
to, have little friends,
enjoy the socialization of it,
getting to see the same women every
there are some parts during that exercise that I think, I cannot do another
second of this.
I know it, some of it is so tough
It is.
especially when somebody's, planning lunch for you and they know good for you,
I think when we do it ourselves,
we take the easy way sometimes.
That's true,
that's true.
thank you for calling.
thank you for participating.
All right.
Thank you.
Bye bye.
guess it's logical to ask, do you exercise any?
unfortunately very little.
much less than what I need to.
I'm about the same way,
do a little bit.
My job kind of hinders me from exercising.
I'm a night operator here at a industry down here
I don't really get out a lot to exercise.
I, am an assistant teacher in business technology
gotten in the last three to four month is jumping up and down to go answer the kids' questions.
It keeps me pretty busy,
it's not really the kind of exercise that gets your heart rate going.
it really,
exercise is so important.
It is.
I realize that.
the way I feel.
I'm used to being in pretty good shape because when I was in high school I stayed in pretty good shape, played a little basketball and stuff like that,
I've got,
now, I'm in college
I go to school during the day and work at night.
I can tell that I've not really done a whole lot.
When you, exercise, what do you do?
Do you do it at home or a club
play at home.
We live out in the country
me and my brother play basketball and have a bunch of guys come over and play
a lot of times up at the church
we'll play volleyball
stuff like that.
I got a hold of, Richard Simmons' tape,
what is it,
I can't even think of the name of it right offhand, with the oldies.
the SWEATING TO THE OLDIES?
Sweating oldies, *
that's not bad.
That's pretty upbeat,
put the cassette in and go with it.
Not often enough to have a routine .
My little Schnauzer wishes I would get out and walk with her.
I don't know,
by the time I get home, all I want to do is just collapse or sit down at my computer
my fingers exercise more than anything now.
that's the way I am.
I just want to sit down and relax.
Too tired to exercise. *
do you ever ride a bike or anything like that?
I did.
I started riding my bike about a couple of months ago
I'd ride about two or three miles a day,
it would last about a couple of weeks
it got real cold for a little while
I gave it up.
Here, about most common exercise for people is to go to the malls and walk,
Walk around.
Because they're enclosed
no matter what the weather is they can walk
at a pretty good clip not have to worry about the weather summer or winter.
I've noticed people doing that down here, too.
I'll be in town or something
people will walk around the mall.
it's safe.
is fairly safe.
That's, inside the mall
may be not safe going to the parking garage .
certain parts of it.
I know a doctor once told me
a friend of mine, suggested swimming
as being the best exercise there is.
I used to do a lot of swimming,
a swimming pool,
it's an old concrete pool.
We've been having trouble with it the past few years,
we haven't got to use it much,
I love to swim and water ski and stuff like that.
The, swimming, they say, uses more muscles than any other exercise with,
the water takes the resistance.
you don't get the soreness.
done some water exercises,
our pool heated
you can't do it year round.
Summertime only.
that's the way ours is.
You don't go out when it's twenty some odd degrees,
go out to the swimming pool.
it's too cold.
Hot tubs are too bad,
I could deal with a hot tub.
Those are nice.
what part of Mississippi are you from?
I'm from Laurel.
Whereabouts is that?
That's way down towards the south.
Not quite on the coast,
we're about two hours from the coast.
you do have cold weather down there?
Yes, ma'am,
started about yesterday, I believe.
It started raining and got real cold.
Ours started Thanksgiving.
from there just,
today was pretty,
Sunday the snow and ice came in.
there was no exercise.
They tell you what our topic was?
I think golf, isn't it?
How much of a golfer are you?
Are you a hacker?
You bet.
I'm fifty years old,
I've been a hacker,
I played better golf when I was fifteen, John, than
I know I,
I play right now.
I know I did,
I know I did.
Course, I know I watch my thirteen year old play now,
it's like they don't have a muscle in their body.
I know,
it's just unreal.
a guy that plays,
if I play a lot of golf, I play six to eight times a year
that's about it.
I figure that's my retirement game.
I really,
I come from a family of golfers.
I was raised by a man, my stepfather who, with a two handicap, he, he could get down on his knees and hit the ball, further than most people could hit it.
I can remember her being, I believe a sixteen or a fourteen handicap,
all they did every day in their life was to play golf every,
they'd leave work and go to a golf course, or a little country club they belonged to back in Richmond, Virginia and just, play nine holes of golf.
That was their deal,
That's what it takes,
need to play that often
to get a really good (( handicap )) .
never could do it.
I have a brother in law who is, an ex college coach and like a pro
he has a very good handicap and plays good golf
sort of like the non golfer golfer of the family.
I went to,
I decided this past year that I was going to get out and start playing a lot more
went after it
find much improvement.
Fact, ever time I'd start trying to correct something, it seemed like the score would *
back up,
think I need to,
I probably need to take more lessons, more current
practice more often.
Spend more time on the,
I think I'm probably the same way.
Lessons do help.
I know ever year we buy,
I go to this Ducks Unlimited dinner,
it's a hunter's type affair
I buy Austin, Texas,
I go down to Austin,
I live in the Dallas area, but I go down to Austin and go with my good customer and friend of mine
we always buy this weekend country club in the hill country.
at, Horseshoe Bay.
I'm familiar with it.
we just have a ball,
we play three days in a row, three different courses
course, believe it or not by the end of the third day and the end of the, third course, my score has gone from, a hundred and twenty down to about a hundred and five.
if you play regular, I think it makes a big difference.
You bet,
makes a lot of difference to me.
also found, too, try to work out regularly
when I am doing that, and feeling loose that I swing better,
I get through the ball better.
I also, if I,
I found as I've gotten a little older here, I worry less about my distance.
You bet.
my control is a little bit better there.
That's super.
I haven't learned to hit the ball easy
I just sort of,
I'm always wanting to hit it hard
that's something my stepfather never could teach me, just to relax and hit the ball,
subsequently when I do tire out from playing like twelve, fourteen holes, energy's gone,
when I do swing it's an easier swing
I do, actually, hit the ball better.
tried a one iron?
I have a wedge.
I hit a two iron awful lot.
the tee.
I don't hit a driver off the tee.
why I need my driving lessons.
I put mine back in my bag this year, too,
used a three wood rather than a driver.
That helps.
I had a lot more control on it,
I sacrificed distance,
I wasn't in trouble every time I got down the fairway.
a good idea.
I think this next year, attempt to play more
I'm going to do the same thing.
laid off my woods about three years ago
I just use a two wood off the fairway
I'm a fairly strong person
I get a pretty good little drive
guess control my irons, better,
if you'll take lessons, the first thing they put in your hand is an iron.
I still remember that watching myself and my son
I think the key is play more often than I play.
read recently here, scoring well, you should play more.
If you're scoring poorly, you should spend more time on the practice g ,
I think there is less factor there, too,
the one iron is something I've been thinking because my driver's gone so badly lately that should pick one up and try to start.
Apparently they're very difficult to play with,
with practice, I would imagine you could groove that swing, too.
I play with a fellow that can knock a one iron,
it's incredible.
his accuracy is what's so startling with it.
an iron that he's really practiced with.
He has used a lot,
it would be fun to get that good at a
You bet.
with an
of the game is just, if I can get off the first tee when everyone's standing around watching you, I'd be ,
great after that .
That, boy,
I just,
if I get off the tee box anything from a hundred fifty to two hundred yard drive through a straight, I just want to get down and kiss the ground, .
get away without embarrassing yourself,
right .
do you exercise regularly?
There is,
I am a school teacher.
there is, girl that went through our school district,
who, does aerobics at the Y C A
and Y, the Y W C A
turn that off please,
I am recording.
My husband just turned on something noisy.
Any way, she comes to the school
there are a group of teachers,
we exercise
regularly for an hour
we do it twice a week.
That is good.
we do, aerobics, for our cardiovascular fitness for thirty minutes
then we do stretching
and toning and cool down
for another thirty minutes.
it is an hour.
my husband and I take, ten mile walks, as often as possible.
not on the nights that I do aerobics,
he wants to, he jogs,
we take the fast walks
we walk a couple of miles and then come back to the house.
take it seriously.
We enjoy doing it.
(( )) .
I enjoy my group at school.
It is a lot more fun to exercise with somebody
than is is to do it by yourself.
I use to exercise regularly
I haven't lately .
I have goofed off, I guess.
I use to also take an aerobics class about three days a week before work.
I guess my job change, my husband's job change and it is just not easy to get up early in the morning any more.
I understand that.
I have never been able to do it before.
the problem is that I am so tired at the end of the day,
I just want to go home and not do anything.
just make myself.
I get up at five thirty
I am at school at seven thirty.
School is not over until, four
our class,
it is in the building
that is the big difference
there are other people around that,
you had better hurry.
Go get dressed.
there is motivation around there
can change right there in the building.
I don't have to drive and fight traffic and get anywhere.
I just go
we, exercise.
until then, I have belonged to exercise clubs
I have gone to, these gyms, like in Plano and Richardson where they offer the,
where they offer aerobics
I have done that before, but it has always had to be late at night
after I have got home and after dinner
you are just kind of going Ugh.
I have tried it immediately after school
try to get some place and exercise from five to six,
by the time you get home and you get dinner you are eating so late.
That is right.
That is right.
That is a (( )) .
It is.
It is really hard with our life style when you work to,
I know, some people go during lunch,
by the time I get over the gym go for my class and shower and get back to work, it is probably two hours or more
that is just too long.
I have twenty five minutes for lunch.
Yeah .
That is out for me.
That doesn't really do it, does it?
I don't think so.
they are nice because if we are running late, it usually,
if things are kind of hectic at school and people are running late, they kind of wait on us.
they know we are in the building and coming.
Where as, at, another place, you are paying a lot more money
it does going to start whether you are there or not .
That is right .
That is right.
this has worked out real nicely.
In fact, she charges us two dollars a session.
that is not much.
we pay her for six weeks at a time
cause that is a unit in, school
report card period
it is like twenty four dollars every six weeks.
That is not bad.
It beats memberships at some of these clubs.
That is for sure.
You are not kidding.
They are real expensive.
I know.
We belonged, for a period of time to the Signature Club for about a year.
we were paying a hundred dollars plus month for our family membership
at first we used it
it got where we weren't beginning to get out money's worth.
they offered lots of things,
we weren't taking advantage of them because we didn't have the time to.
we decided to forget that.
That was just a waste of our our money.
we have one through work
probably about a hundred and fifty dollars a year. Which is bad. *
don't know
I still just end up going cause it isn't at a convenient time or I don't know something,
I need to do something.
its only walk the dog or something.
I need to start doing that.
It does make you feel better.
The hard thing is getting going.
That is right.
if you have somebody who will do it with you,
for a long time my husband didn't want to walk cause he wants to, jog
he decided that, maybe,
What are you guys having for Christmas?
What are we having?
Let's see .
I'm not planning the menu.
you're not.
No .
We usually go out to one of our folks,
they both live close to
I don't know,
it seems like big thing for Christmas is usually ham.
funny you should mention that.
I'm a pig farmer .
you are
it's kind of a hobby more than anything else,
we're going to have, wild boar
My goodness.
killed a boar the other day,
it was, mating with the sows,
you can't use the piglets,
It's about six months of no use,
shot him and cleaned him out and had him, processed into ham,
we're also going to have a little roast suckling pig, because got one that's got hernia
rather than, pay the vet four hundred dollars for surgery, we'll just cook him and eat him .
I tell you what, preparing a little pig a snap,
I'm telling you, real easy, easier than chicken.
you just,
you kill him,
you probably,
most guys just shoot them in the head,
they go,
in a second they're gone
you just dip the carcass in, boiling water, pull it out, little raspy brush, pulls the hair off, and, gut it, and, just stick it down in a pit with some cloves and, some pineapple, about three pineapples, sliced them up, and, cover him up with, wet, sacks, *
and then start a charcoal fire on top of him.
my goodness.
after about six hours, you put the fire out and dig that baby out of there,
it's the best eating you ever had.
does a boar taste just like regular ham?
just like a pig
Does it.
it has a lot less fat.
This wild boar weighed probably about three hundred and thirty pounds
Oh my.
he dressed out to almost two hundred and ten pounds.
my goodness.
we took the skin and the head off,
that was about, a pounds of just ham.
how many people are you planning on serving at Christmas?
not going to eat the whole thing .
Eat it all,
yeah .
It would take a year.
we're going to drive up to Kansas City, see my wife's folks,
what's your mother cooking for Christmas ,
her mom's doing brisket.
I don't,
what is brisket?
It's a part of the cow that they used to throw away.
It's just tough as a boot
they used to use it for leather, I think .
my goodness.
I was kidding.
a part of the loin, the rib cage,
it has a lot of muscle in it and a lot of,
gristle where it attaches to the ribs,
it's a tough piece of meat
my goodness.
it's so tasty, you can't stand it.
you just take it
you marinate it for a couple of days
that softens it up, huh.
(( )) .
you just put it in the oven,
takes about four hours to cook one.
They weigh about anywhere from ten to twenty pounds.
we're going to have that.
what else do you serve with your pig?
we'll have cranberries and hominy
are, we're big on olives and cucumbers and stuff up here.
We have black olives and cucumbers and, tomatoes,
we still have tomatoes
do you?
fresh tomatoes.
just got lots of snow .
it started to freeze up around here,
there's nothing between you and us but our barb wire, and half of that's down.
it's thirty degrees this morning.
it'll go up to fifty or sixty almost.
my goodness.
I didn't know it got that low at night.
it's desert,
we are, it's, the edge of the desert,
it's part of the Great Plains.
in the day time in the summer it goes up to a hundred, hundred and ten
at night it goes down to about sixty.
My goodness.
we get a fifty temperature swing in about four hours.
everything that lives around here is real tough .
That's trees,
we got hundred year old trees that are, twenty feet tall.
That's all the bigger they get,
just hard as a rock.
how do you get your main source of current events?
until recently I was taking the WALL STREET JOURNAL,
I thought that was a good way,
I have about five different magazines that I get that keeps me up on things.
it's a week or two late,
that's how I'm staying up.
I either watch the news
occasionally I'll read the paper.
do you like how it's presented on the news?
I think the media's a little bit too manipulative.
They allow you,
try to lead you too much, I believe,
sometimes they're not very open,
I think they're a little bit biased sometimes.
Like for example, rape case.
The coverage on that was,
when it first happened it was, he was guilty, he was guilty, he was guilty.
they try to have you form opinions or whatever,
didn't like that were going on when we had Desert Storm and stuff like that.
basically I think they don't present whole sides everything.
makes you feel like they're, wanting you to take their opinion.
it's, instead of reporting the news, it's more like an editorial, I believe
on a lot of issues.
I've noticed that too,
it's kind of distressing, isn't it?
with subtle little words, usually, just that sway the whole, report by just a couple of words.
I was in school, was a communications major,
I'm well aware of the little subtle words and persuasive speaking, so forth .
Were you looking into becoming a reporter
I was,
off in a whole entire different
I went with the state.
I, went with the Department of State Treasurer in retirement disability,
calculate benefits.
I bet that's a interesting job.
for state government you hear all about current events, about things going on within the state itself.
another source where I keep up with current events
there's one that I'm reading right now.
It's INFORMATION WEEK.
It says A T and T to account for benefits that the A I C P A now says you have to show as a liability.
It's going to cost them seven point five billion after tax charge in ninety three,
to account for that.
It's a lot of money.
it'll drop their earnings by a hundred million a year forever more.
It's a lot of money.
it is.
you have to stay up on stuff,
I bet in job that you have to,
do you read the WALL STREET JOURNAL?
I primarily deal with the state employees,
find interesting tidbits in what the news reports as far as state of North Carolina's budget, and stuff like that.
I really know what the budget is,
when they were saying we were so poor and they couldn't pay taxes, and pay people their income tax refunds and things like that,
I'm well aware of the billions of assets that the state has,
just funny.
I don't have a whole lot of faith the news.
Course it's,
get what they hear from,
it's not always think one hundred percent reliable.
Can you think of anything that could be done to make our news media more accurate and objective?
I think they need to more depth, before they would just report, somebody wants to make a statement or something like that,
another example is the, AIDS issue or whatever.
someone said, I found a cure.
They immediately,
the headlines on the news or whatever is, Someone says they found a cure for AIDS.
two months later it's discovered it's not,
come out with something like that they need research the matter, I believe, a little bit more.
I guess they do that so they don't get scooped,
they have the big story.
I think the,
Let's see, *
my husband does the majority of gardening, taking care of the lawn and fertilizing,
I, tend to all the, planting the annuals the spraying
and, taking care of them and maybe putting flowers in, throughout that season, and later on maybe planting some mums and that kind of stuff and, any kind of decorating for the holidays,
I'll fix the porch up with pumpkins for Halloween and Christmas,
basically he does all the heavy stuff,
I do all the fun stuff .
we have it just opposite here.
My wife works at, at the T I,
she's, sedentary all day long
so when she gets home she likes to mow.
I see.
we have about ten acres,
she tries
to mow about half of it .
Wow. That's big job.
it keeps,
it's doing real well,
when we got this place dirt was just overgrazed
it was bare dirt in a lot of places
now, since we've been mowing it,
of course we water a little bit,
that's just too much to water all at once,
just by keeping it mowed and getting it mulched in, we've reclaimed a lot of it.
I bet it's beautiful.
we don't do much in the way of, flowers.
We have one little flower garden
work with.
The rest of it is just wild flowers
Wild flowers.
in the summertime we get the prettiest yellow flowers.
They're about, I guess, a third the size of
that sounds lovely.
in the spring we get the bluebonnets and Indian paintbrush.
the wild flowers are beautiful.
about throwing some the back, just way in the back, behind the swing sets
just have some wild flowers growing back there would be real pretty.
Then you don't really have to have much maintenance involved.
my wife and I really enjoy that sort of thing.
she enjoys mowing.
I can't believe it.
I know a lot of
I hate it .
a lot of women do.
I've just never really,
maybe one of these days I'll have to get out there and mow,
my husband takes it on,
I'll help rake up the grass,
sometimes I'll help him edge,
we don't have that much property,
we're on a corner lot,
there's a lot of edging to do
that's what's nice about living more in the country,
you don't have to worry about any of that .
We don't even have any concrete
or asphalt.
that's nice,
this is different for us because the other,
in the past we've had homes that haven't had any side walks,
it's been a little more country with the trees,
we do miss that.
if we had a chance to move, I think we'd move back to somewhere that was a little more countrified
and a little less maintenance required
far as that goes.
we do everything together.
spring we got a thousand pine trees from the,
actually this fall, I was talking about,
two weeks ago
we got a thousand pine trees from the, soil and conservation people
we're in the process planting
Wow that's,
we're building a stand, just to the north of our house, and along the east, property line
think trying to do is create sort of a wind break
because I tell you, in the winter time wind comes out of the north, it just cuts right through you like you're not even there.
I put,
On the other side of the house, though, that's where we have all delicate flowers and the mums,
we have morning glory
we have trumpet vine and moon flowers,
we planted those out by the septic, so that, they get plenty of water
we get hummingbirds come in the
spring, all summer long.
that sounds so pretty.
when we leave the doors open, they fly in the house.
really .
they, don't do any damage, though,
they just fly right back out, if you have the,
they don't like it in here because there's nothing to eat
I see.
when you're as busy as one of those babies, you've got to eat most of the time.
I see.
we got a few,
we put up some hummingbird feeders and some bird feeders.
for the most part, gardening for us is,
we got asparagus,
we've got some plum trees and some apple trees and some tomato
and some blackberries and strawberries.
Man, we get the best strawberries, that you just can't believe.
that sounds wonderful.
We just got our last tomatoes.
I love home tomatos.
There's nothing like them.
They just don't have the same ones in the supermarket .
these are accidental tomatos.
What does that mean, accidental tomatoes?
last year the birds came and ate a few of the tomatoes,
of course you're going to lose some that way
the seeds go right through them.
I see.
wherever they pooped,
What are your favorite shows?
get enough time to watch much T V,
the ones that are out now.
watched that SISTERS a couple of times.
I think that's kind of a good show.
I've never seen that.
Haven't you?
I like that one,
(( )) I'm trying to think.
don't even know if I have any other real regular ones that I watch.
How about you?
I like L A LAW
not because it's realistic, but it's entertaining.
I do like that.
occasionally I'll see that one.
Let's see.
I watch CHEERS sometimes.
Do you?
And, mostly just movies, when there's a good movie on.
when there isn't a good movie on, too.
I just like to have the T V on I'm home alone or something
either the radio or the T V s got to be on ,
the whole time.
I do,
I kind of have gotten into a couple of soaps lately.
been home with a,
I have a baby,
I've haven't seemed to have gotten out as much,
watch a soap occasionally.
Do you watch any of those?
don't, because I work all day.
I pro ,
I usually do if I'm home for a couple of days, around Christmas or whatever,
after a while I'll start watching it
for a while I'll ask people if they know what happened
then I'll just forget it.
ones do you get into?
I don't even remember
the last time I watched was back in college.
It was GENERAL HOSPITAL or something
I maybe watched it for a week
I know that people used to arrange their whole schedules around the,
they wouldn't take a class that was in the middle of their soap opera.
How funny,
It was a,
I don't get into them that much.
When I'm home, sometimes in the day I'll
I'll watch them
I was really trying to think.
I don't even know if there's any other shows that I watch or else.
you said you have kids.
How old?
I have a six year old,
I have a,
he'll be a year old in January.
a SESAME STREET fan?
watch it.
My six year old's kind of,
he's outgrown that one a little bit,
I've started to turn it on a little bit for the baby,
entertained by it.
do watch that one.
Supposed to be a great babysitter .
they're not entertained for too long with it.
he's still too little,
I do turn that on.
do like, DONAHUE.
Sometimes I watch that.
I think he has some interesting things on it.
I know,
what time is that on, *
I never see it?
I'm not home then,
that's why I don't see it.
I'll watch that occasionally.
He's got some real,
I don't know,
there's some real weird people that,
he seems to come up with.
Isn't it strange how people are fascinated by other people that they think are strange ?
(( )) . He does have some real bizarre things, I think.
other than that, I don't know.
What's that?
Guess I'm not much of a T V person really.
I guess it wasn't a real good topic for us,
. tell me,
is it snowing up there?
It snowed a little bit, probably about four days ago
they said we weren't going to get any more for Christmas.
Wow. do you have snow on the ground now? *
there is snow on the ground.
that's nice.
wish it would snow a little bit more.
I've heard it's raining there.
we've broken all sorts of records.
They've got,
we still have some highways closed,
it stopped raining almost twenty four hours ago.
my goodness.
just phenomenal,
you see it on the news all the time,
until you've really seen it, really hit you.
I was driving home from work Friday,
I saw, there were some stop signs, submerged up to the writing on the stop sign,
that was just
it was amazing to me.
there has been some flooding
there's been a lot,
(( )) .
too bad
the thing is that this happens,
in the last three years it's happened at least once a year, if not twice.
But the people continue to move back in the flood zones.
I don't know.
you got to wonder how long they're going to keep doing that for.
I don't think I would.
they just finished cleaning up from the last flood.
what a mess.
do you work for T I?
I do,
(( )) huh.
this has been an interesting thing to do.
Have you made a lot of calls
probably talked maybe to five people.
My husband is doing it too,
talked to a few more than me,
it's been real interesting and kind of fun.
Do you get paid for these?
five dollars.
Five dollars a call?
I wish I could do that .
don't you have to do it as part of its,
We can't get paid for it.
Don't you have to do it,
What vacations have you been on that you like?
I really enjoyed,
I went to Mackinaw Island
a few years back.
It's in the middle of Michigan
that was nice.
I like, driving to different cities because of the scenery,
that was nice.
most of yours is kind of driving
been all over the states except for pretty much east.
it's very pretty driving up north in Wisconsin too.
far do you usually up driving
the furthest I drove was probably Texas,
I've taken a train before to California.
Kenosha, Wisconsin.
I have a brother in Minnesota that used to live in Wisconsin.
that's quite a ways.
it is .
we went to California this last year
and, liked it,
it was too crowded
Walt Disney World, and other places, it's just the wrong time of the year to go.
course, you get in any of those tourist traps
and everything's, outrageously priced,
kind of,
you wonder if really worth it to pay, thirty five dollars or forty dollars just to get in.
that's true.
There's lots of fun places to see.
I think the scenery kind of,
that's something do to, to get up in mountains *
Do you have any mountains nearby?
No .
Pretty flat, isn't it?
I think, the biggest limitation is a lot, just time and money, isn't it.
What vacation have you enjoyed the most?
Probably, when we go to Wisconsin (( )) .
it's pretty fun.
There's a lot to do up there.
It's pretty busy, though,
you have to like crowds,
What is it?
it's huge amusement park
they have water slides
it's just a big, big tourist attraction.
The downtown is all little shops and candy shops
really neat.
I don't think, hardly anybody lives there,
it's just kind of tourists.
Probably a city in itself, kind of like, huh?
it's mostly place.
Summer place.
How far away is it?
from Kenosha, it's about three hours.
It's about a hour away from Madison.
that's nice.
a pretty ride up there, too.
I really like the city Wausau in Wisconsin.
It's really pretty.
It's nice out there.
I like all the nature things there are to look at,
you can probably,
you're in a climate that's kind of humid,
you have probably a lot of green, and lot of real pretty things.
climate's real dry
Where is that?
you have to kind of get up into the mountains to get much of the greenery.
of the land's pretty brown.
You don't have as much of the greenery like you have.
where's that?
Idaho, is where I live,
(( )) .
Okay .
It's by,
I have a little baby thinks he needs to cry now that I'm on the phone.
It's by, Boise.
You ever heard of Boise?
it's fine,
it's nice.
It's, lot different kind of.
I lived in Indiana for a while,
it's a real different, land and scenery than there.
It's kind of fun to have a little bit diversity, and
things like that.
I think, there's a lot of places down, even in southern Utah, the and Bryce Canyon
boy, they're gorgeous
(( ))
(( )) .
Those are kind of fun places.
We usually go over to Bear Lake in the summer, which is kind of on the border of Idaho and Utah,
the lake goes on forever,
that's real pretty over there too.
I think I'm kind of a summer vacationer.
me too,
me too.
Unless I'm going somewhere warm
for the winter .
that'd be nice.
Where'd you,
are you presently looking, for a used car?
as a matter of fact, I just bought one .
Just bought one.
within the last three weeks.
S ,
what did you get?
I got a Lexus L S four hundred.
Which is made by Toyota.
Lexus is a Toyota subbrand.
It's kind of their,
I was wondering where that came from
they're talking like it was an American built car.
sounds like it, but it really isn't .
It's, marketed, of course, own dealerships.
Usually, somebody that's maybe got a Cadillac or Lincoln and Lexus dealership,
sometimes they do that,
it's, a brand car,
I've really liked it.
drives just wonderfully
there is,
it's so quiet, almost can't tell the engine is running.
That's their big selling point, other than general luxury
the particular seems to be quiet ride.
It really is.
It's got pretty good acceleration, too.
It's got a C D player in it,
play those
that wasn't a standard, was it?
there is not very many options on that car.
There is only about five or six options.
Everything else is standard.
you get the impression that,
some of the tracking control things and skidding control things for up north.
The C D and the premium sound system.
Skidding control,
you mean the antilock brake system?
it's kind of a traction control, I think they call it.
not just antilock brake.
I think that's already on most of them,
this is
there is a further traction control,
probably suspension tied into
the brakes.
also the suspension can be raised for driving, like in the ice and snow.
It can raise the car's center up a little bit.
For going under
a lot of piled up stuff if you were up in Michigan or somewhere.
Mississippi probably doesn't,
some of these muddy driveways could use it around here.
Mississippi probably doesn't have to worry too much .
snow doesn't happen very often.
If it does, people go, what's this stuff.
originally I'm from West Virginia.
We got a
you had some there.
pretty fair amount of snow.
I got down here in June of eighty four,
the first winter down here was probably the worst winter they'd seen in twenty years,
it was amazing how a few inches of snow would turn normally sane, manly, adult men into playful little children.
I know.
We had this group of, surveyors come into, a shop I was working in, four or five of them, these big old flame worn suburbans and the snow all over the place.
They had just come in to get gas in their vehicles and get the oil checked.
while they were there they set back , drank about four or five cups of coffee apiece and made snowmen on the hoods of their vehicles
threw snowballs all over the place,
had themselves a ball for about an hour .
Lexus, really,
the moon roof I think is also an option.
Although most of them are ordered them with it,
there really is only about a half a dozen, things
everything else is pretty standard.
I did not get the traction control which also, when you take the suspension thing it also puts heaters in the front seats, too.
that's kind of,
You go out and get in that real cold car
It's a package deal.
you turn that on,
kind of,
that's only available the traction control and the other option.
those two are sold together
you have to take a two thousand dollar option there to
to, do it,
opted not for that
it doesn't sound real necessary in Texas.
the dealership I dealt with, they order them all with the, moon roof and,
nice floor mats and everything in there.
I worked for Lincoln,
the only thing I had to decide on was whether I wanted a C D or not in the stereo system
that was pretty much it.
they had three or four basic packages that they
they offer.
Sounds like the Lincoln Mercury dealer I used to work for.
They didn't order anything but the extra luxury version of whatever they got.
Little Mercury Tracer
I've been o ,
I've been,
imagine, or not, luxury Mercury Tracer.
I've seen that in the dealership.
I was driving a Lincoln, a Mark Seven
for the last four years before I traded it for this
I'm leasing the Lexus.
I usually lease them
since I own a business
I just run it through my business,
the Lincoln ride is certainly good, too, but Lexus is nothing like I have ever been in before. *
It's just,
Like sitting in your living room.
it really is,
it's got a lumbar support in the seats.
Yeah .
just kind of brings that support up in the sma ,
tell me what you think about the Vietnam war.
I'm a Vietnam era veteran,
I was, fortunate not to have to serve in the theater,
however, my support roll in the service was to support those in the theater of operation.
I'm of the old school that believes that, the, contracts that we made back years ago needed to be honored.
However, I think we could have executed the war gotten it over a whole lot quicker.
those are my personal thoughts,
I think that if we'd let the generals run the war like we let the generals run World War Two we'd had got it over a whole lot quicker and lost a lot fewer people.
as it was, the politicians ran Korean conflict and ultimately the Vietnam thing,
we managed to come out, losers all the way around.
this is what us, United States, per se, to get out of the role of world policeman.
Your views,
as I understand it, I, don't know a lot about it, we got in there because of France
France was there first.
They had,
We got into it because of SEATO agreement, back just right after World War Two that, we pledged a mutual, defense the South Vietnamese,
as it turned out they were in a civil war one with another,
really we
question us, now,
of course hindsight is all too clear.
deal the, situation we played it.
Jerry, what did you think of people like, Jane Fonda, another activist.
don't get me started on those people.
what she did, I thought she was a wonderful person,
just don't to do with her any more,
your government.
Right or wrong?
right or wrong,
I don't think we can determine whether we were right or wrong,
having to deal with, again,
I think we could have made a different agreement
back in the late forties era that would have kept (( )) of there.
didn't realize that we'd signed some type of deal like that.
I thought we came in as first advisors to the French, and then they decided to pull out
Can you hold just a second, Terry?
One moment please.
Sure .
Wonder what happens to this little beastie on call waiting or something.
Well that's not,
Sorry for the delay.
That's okay.
this is,
the, mutual defense thing was,
it was complicated,
I don't think everybody knows the whole situation.
I don't.
from what I can gather, is we went and said yeah, we will help the South Vietnamese, should they ask.
the French went in and tried their old style warfare, and, got soundly thrashed.
we didn't do a whole lot better.
had thought that they had, colonies there, or something.
that was the old French colony, but see, were our, allies in NATO
they're also our allies in SEATO, which was the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization, which has since been, disbanded as far as I know,
NATO on the way of being disbanded.
we go in as an ally to the French and says yeah, help you out, if you get in a bind.
they got in a bind and says we don't want to, play any more
kind of, we kind of the ball rolling ourselves versus a bunch of top secret silly and then the troops, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
I'm thirty two,
I bar ,
I missed it.
Seventy four is when they quit sending troops.
I was just probably three or four years,
what kind of hobbies do you have Lori?
I guess, like to play golf.
I also like to plant flowers and some gardening and do arts and crafts.
Where do you play golf in this area?
we live, pretty close,
to the Mesquite Golf Course.
we will play either out there or at Firewheel.
That is usually where we play,
I have played different courses in in the Dallas area.
ride or do you pull a cart when you play golf?
both .
Not at the same time.
I was going to say, that could be difficult .
sometimes we ride
sometimes, we, pull,
we like to, to, a lot of the times just walk, for the exercise.
I find that when I ride in a cart, I play better
I think it is cause I don't get as tired .
I think that might be true.
I don't like pulling a cart on Firewell golf course because they want you to pull the cart on the path.
I know,
that makes me so mad .
not going to do that much damage to the course, but apparently they think differently .
That is the reason, I don't play over there.
I like the course, but I don't play over there because, don't, don't allow you to pull a cart.
I don't think a cart damages the turf.
the reason why we play over there is because its where, since we are a Garland resident, they gave us a special deal where you can get, ten rounds of golf for a hundred dollars,
a hundred dollars
it is half price what the normal green fees are.
that is why we play over there
we have got our card .
I guess I could use a card too.
I live, to the Firewheel Golf Course.
do you?
you live in Garland then.
I live in northwest Garland.
Right up there near the golf course.
we are in south Garland,
next time you go, check into it,
they have,
it is just like, a bus card
they just punch it.
it has got one through ten on it
every time you go they just punch it for you.
in the last two years, I have not played very much golf because I am involved in Boy Scouts.
I have children
You must have son.
Boy Scout age.
I have two boys that are boy scout age,
I am very active in Boy Scouts
I would have to say that camping and hiking and canoeing and Boy Scouts is my hobby.
that sounds like fun too .
my golf clubs will probably rust before I get to use them again
my boys are still right at the beginning age
it is probably going to be six to eight years before they go to college.
you need to, teach them how to play and take them out on the course with you .
That's right.
Lessons are expensive though.
Well you can teach them .
they would probably never make it then
I don't think,
I only took lessons for golf when I was in college.
as a course for P E you know
so I could graduate.
that is the only time I think I have ever really taken golf lessons
that was kind of a group
and not individual.
I took one lesson one other time.
Besides that, I just, try to make the club hit the ball.
I know what you mean .
I don't want to play strike out,
I have fun doing it,
good shots and some bad shots.
is just nice to get outdoors and do something.
you said you work, in the gardens too.
Do you have, special flowers?
flower gardens.
I like to have,
matter of fact this past weekend I just got finished planting a bunch of tulips and daffodil bulbs.
those ought to be coming up around spring time .
My wife had, just put in a bunch of, I want to say, they are pansies.
She put them in like two months ago cause they are winter plants.
they have been,
we thought even with all the cold weather weather we have had they have been blooming just fine.
they do great.
I put mine in probably in November.
That is when she did, I think.
I think it was November
I don't do anything to mine, water them or anything .
they just,
they do really good
I even had, I guess it was last year or the year before, I had some out
it froze
the pansies looked terrible, but they came back later.
I didn't do anything to them
good to plant in the winter time.
They last for a long time then.
if you start putting them, you can put them out in the spring too,
once it starts getting real hot
then it just kills them cause they can't stand the hot weather.
Do they survive longer if you plant them in the winter time?
Will they make it through the summer sun?
they won't make it through the summer because it gets too hot,
they make it through probably winter and spring.
I have got some of those too,
I love flowers .
that is good.
some arts and crafts
I love to go,
you have a child
two years old in child care right now. *
Two year old daughter in child care
we went through the process of searching for child care and
finding what we consider to be,
real good child care at a, pretty reasonable price, we think.
How about you,
do you have any children?
our first
he just turned three months.
we're just starting into hunting for child care.
Right now, both of us are students.
Are you?
Where are
a student?
University of Southern Mississippi.
No kidding.
I was a professor in a university here in California for a while.
are you going to, put your son in child care in year or two?
spring semester a year from now he's going to have to be in child care days a week more than likely.
depending on how my class schedule runs
my wife will be doing her internship that semester.
It will be forty hour week, eight to five type of thing.
, depending on what my class schedule looks like, he may spend anywhere from four to eight hours a day in child care at that point.
Right now we're trying to avoid it,
we just, as a matter of fact just yesterday hired girl to, watch him.
I get out of class at certain time
my wife is already supposed to be on her way to her class.
once a day this overlap happens where we can't, one of us
be home.
for about a day we got a baby sitter comes in.
that's a good experience, I think,
there are a lot of things to think about
the articles that are written on the topic,
are pretty good
they kind of boil down to,
any other important decision you really have to explore the alternative
huh .
what we found, to be the best guide was our own instincts about,
people who were going to be loving
that's more important than anything else.
We could have sent, her to a fancier, facility.
she goes to a home.
This is a,
a couple, emigrated from China early
their lives.
They've been here probably thirty, forty years.
They've got three daughters.
they have a loving home
they're both there
they have a kid that comes in and helps them in the afternoon.
our daughter is healthy, happy, well adjusted and enjoys going
to see her friends,
that makes a big difference.
it's a good experience.
I th ,
if it's good,
I think it's very good for the child.
if it's,
a loving environment, I think it's very good
that's really what we've learned about it.
She'll have to go on to something more stimulating in terms of preschool in a year
we feel real fortunate
we were able to, just, choose in the marketplace.
I don't know what it's like around, Hattiesburg.
There's a lot of child care available, but
invariably there's waiting lists.
we were a little slow getting on the waiting list
I'll bet they're involved.
department of, their Home Ec Department
have a subbranch, American Family Counseling
their people staff the child care center just off campus.
they have a pretty good size waiting list.
Yeah .
I know a real hard thing to do, even for people university communities.
Out here at Manford, they have a, a real good facility
there, is quite a waiting list to get into that.
a, it's a, it's an important,
it's an industry that's still a cottage industry
I think this really
it's best, *
is buyer beware.
a cottage industry's the best way to do it really,
it is the best way
if you over,
to do it, interestingly.
I think that, my own interest
leads me to believe that that's a good sign and that, private enterprise is the way to go and that it will lead to a
fundamental change in the way we learn.
I think what we're going to go to is much more commercial entrepreneurial learning ventures in the market.
As a matter of fact, my future is banked on that, professionally because I believe there are, pressing needs in the marketplace, unmet by schools, colleges
universities for, learning a lot of things that kids can learn watching Sesame Street and in child care.
Primary skills which turn out
to be the most important skills in life.
it's amazing how much good things like, Sesame Street will do.
(( )) .
It's phenomenal, system,
favorite type of music or musician or any.
I don't really have a favorite type.
I like, a lot of different types of music.
Do you?
I have tape collection that I like to listen to, cassette tapes
it's pretty varied.
How about you?
very, I'm very varied as well.
don't think I've ever met a type of music I don't like except for, maybe, heavy metal and that.
That's exactly me.
The acid rock or the heavy metal.
Even some of that I like okay
but not, mostly, as a general rule,
I don't care for that at all.
I don't enjoy rap too much, either.
doesn't appeal to, my ears.
as far as the rap goes, I think there are a few artists that appeal to me
I like some of their songs.
I agree, with the general rule, wouldn't choose rap either.
like to listen to, what you might call pop, easy listening
country western, jazz
I like, like I said, pretty varied, music.
I have a couple that my husband really hates
Oh .
that I listen to,
like Billy Holiday
I really love to listen to her,
I even have tape of Lady Smith Blackman Bazo
they're very harmonic
they really are.
they're interesting to listen to.
You might try that.
How about you?
I listen to, specific,
likely I would be listen to, jazz or classical music.
, took, four years of classical guitar,
I played jazz combo all four years.
I play guitar
for the jazz combo.
that's where listening enjoyments are,
jazz can get on my nerves after a while.
you can't just listen to it, especially a lot of the deeper stuff,
you just can't listen to it for enjoyment
It's too,
you have to concentrate on it, it seems.
you're playing it, *
doesn't do anything.
What about the blues or something like that?
blues are okay.
tell you, I do like,
I grew up on blue grass music.
My dad is a big blue grass fan,
I wouldn't have admitted it when I was in high school
I really do like it a lot.
like some of it,
as far as what they now call country western, it doesn't sound like the old country music at all, does it? *
it doesn't,
it doesn't.
some of it sounds more like pop music.
, they've all got, the real screechy electric guitars now.
n ,
I don't care for that. *
If I'm going to listen to today's country western, I have tapes of like Randy Travis and Clint Black
I even liked Jim Reeves
I grew up on him. *
Merle Haggard
and Faron Young
that type of country western is
what like to listen to.
Asleep At The Wheel. *
Sons of the Pioneers, stuff like that. *
I like sound tracks a lot.
do you?
it seems like you get a lot of original music that way.
you sure do.
think about like the Twin Peaks and stuff like that
that's just real recent
things like that I like to listen to.
I like instrumental things.
I have some Spiro Gyro tapes.
they're great aren't they.
they're wonderful.
I love them.
I have some dulcimer music.
I mean, like I said, pretty varied.
it sure is,
Al Jarreau, he's somebody I like.
He's jazz inspired but
but still kind of pop, too.
I like his,
he has a nice smooth voice.
what I like the most about him, is, like he's having fun.
some people sing,
and they have their faced all contorted,
like it hurts them or something .
he looks like he's having a good time.
he's up there moving around and smiling like he's happy
like all he wants to do make the audience enjoy it, too.
is real fun to listen to.
Bonnie Rait, I like her a lot.
in fact, whenever she won her big Grammy
I think it was like five of them or something
it five,
something like that,
it was last year wasn't it.
last year or the year before, I can't remember,
I was listening to a particular radio station
the one D J said, who the heck is Bonnie Rait and why does she deserve five Grammies?
I vowed then that I was not going to listen to that radio station any more, if that D J can make such a unedu ,
Mark, our situation is that we do have a daughter that is, in the situation of choosing college.
She's actually at Bible College for this current year.
I guess , first and foremost, a question of what the student wants to have in the way of a career and then, which colleges or universities can best offer that program,
it comes down to the dollar.
You have to,
it's whether or not you're a resident for that jurisdiction,
it does, *
it comes down to,
trying to come with a trade off of the costs.
what do you feel about come of the things that need to,
(( Damn it )) , I agree everything you've said.
thing that advise any parent, person looking for a college, is that it's really important for them to actually visit the college and actually try and get away from, the guided tour of the college and try and talk to the, actual students there
they're just, in my experience,
I've talked to people at other colleges, that,
the way, the, the lifestyle pictured in the isn't always the whole story.
y ,
catalogs are sales material.
It doesn't matter
whether, selling school.
it, really is helpful if a parent and the student can get there and see
the real character of the school and the real life experiences of the school.
I guess there's a difference in,
here the,
at least,
the university here in (( Saskatoon )) is primarily, off campus resident students.
they just live in the community.
I know that there are a lot of colleges and universities, particularly as they get to be a little bit on the smaller side where dormitory life is, is right on campus as well
changes the character
of it quite a bit.
go to Georgia Tech which is, primarily an engineering school
I think I really do miss the fact, (( that )) it's not a university, that not,
it tends to be a very conservative school
doesn't seem to be the diversity of views that a lot of, universities have.
I guess we're here,
this is the university that has, for years had car, that, will travel the farthest a small quantity of gas, *
our engineering students.
in competitions
that's the kind of thing that also the kinds of achievements that have been made by students as well as graduates
can give you idea of the character of the school.
got a spirit of innovation and excellence or whether you've got spirit of, somewhat unkind, but
producing graduates.
as sort of some development and some training,
it's easy enough to crank out graduates, but to really challenge them
that can vary between colleges, and faculties even, as to what the attitude towards achievement is.
do you, have anyone that you're seriously needing to, feed information to?
I suppose if you're actually at Georgia Tech as a student, you're a ways away from that.
I don't really know of anyone for colleges now, with the exception of, people's younger brothers and sisters.
(( Then the only advise passed )) down is, don't go to Georgia Tech .
I'm more interested in choosing the right when you graduate
type information .
really, a valid point that people need
to consider as well.
going to is going to take four to eight years depending on the
programs person's involved in
after that, you have to be out in the real world and have to be able to support yourself
if you go in an area that there is just not much of a job market
if that's,
like a fine arts education,
Best training in the world is not going to on your table.
You have any pets?
Do I have pets?
I have a cat
I have two dogs.
Two dogs,
what kind?
I have a Schnauzer
I have a Sheltie.
Is it a miniature or a standard Schnauzer?
a miniature.
I'm going into all this because at a pet shop actually.
the Schnauzer watching for one of, the managers where I work
he's been transferred to Germany for a while
I'm taking care of his dog
I had just got the kitten when he asked me that
he says, my dog doesn't like cats,
I said,
because it was a kitten,
love kittens.
They just are fascinated.
she doesn't know that this is a cat yet.
That's good.
They (( say )) ,
they get along real good.
I said if Tom could see dog lick this kitty, he'd flip. *
that was interesting.
Didn't expect that would happen.
that's cool,
that's nice.
let's see,
what was the other dog you had?
It's a sheltie.
a sheltie.
She's real little dog.
She's got a very nice temperament.
they're not as aggressive as a Schnauzer.
the Schnauzers are a little aggressive.
They can be nippy.
shelties are nice.
Everybody seems to be really happy with them.
They're good temperament.
They're a good temperament
They put up with a lot.
I think they have a good head on their shoulders.
I think they have higher level of intelligence than other, dogs that I have encountered.
Schnauzers, in particular probably.
also some poodles,
they're kind of,
there are some smart ones out there,
there's not so smart ones .
I g ,
it seems the smaller the are, worse off they are .
maybe some credence in that statement.
bred down so much.
They aren't the best pets.
I really don't know
what the best pet is.
I guess it's up to the individual and how they relate to their animal.
some people seem fairly well suited for
for, miniature poodles and such.
And bull dogs .
I don't know about these pincers, these, now, what are they called.
Pit bull.
that are so vicious.
They might,
they're actually very friendly dogs.
Are they really?
I don't think I've ever
they're really nice.
seen one.
dealt with quite a few of them.
that bring them into the shop and ask me they, fit collars and stuff on them
just really nice, really friendly, kind of like medium intelligence.
how do they become s ,
w ,
how did they get their reputation, then?
because some people, want to train them as,
they train them to be that way, then.
You really can't get a pit bull from birth that's that way.
it takes a lot of training and a lot of abuse to get a dog to really
the poor animal is doing it in self protection.
by nature really nasty critters.
They are very determined critters
once you get them going, it's not good deal with, but, really like them. *
impressed by them.
real sturdy little critters
they aren't that big.
And, just really friendly.
that's unusual.
I suppose you were surprised.
right now,
the reputation that,
they have quite an, notable reputation as far as,
They picked up a lot of bad press lately.
they're banned some areas I understand.
any pet's be bad if you train it to be that way.
they must have just targeted that breed and said, boy, we're going ,
it's, when,
in my hometown, they just outlawed ferrets
because they had one incident of a ferret, attacking
in a house.
these people had left this infant in the same room with this loose ferret.
ferret is used to running the house and was kind of wild
they should expect something like that to happen.
bas ,
now it's like ferrets are outlawed in the town.
did it attack the child, then?
bit him.
not a good thing,
I think it was probably individual ferret thing, because wild ferret.
the people that owned him should have been on the
lookout for that.
they really expected it.
taken the precautions.
They didn't.
It's too bad it happened, though.
then animal's in trouble, and not the person.
Go ahead .
have you every been tested for a new job or anything?
I haven't.
in my job, we are allowed to be.
this is the rules that they can do this anytime.
I don't know of anyone who ever has been picked out and been tested.
it's just sort of,
they can if they,
They can if they choose to.
had any experience with it at all?
not really
I've always worked on a university level
a lot of my friends had to be tested before they got summer jobs and stuff.
what do you think about that?
think they're very accurate
I know their lifestyles changed to the drug test
I know they changed afterwards.
I know of that too.
I also know that things like antihistamines, Sudafeds, things like that, can really throw it off.
you cannot get a job because of it
they may not tell you the reason why. *
had a friend,
it didn't cause her any problems with her job
it came back that she tested positive for using a hallucinogen.
what it was, was in the jungle
it was some Malaria medication
she tested positive for that.
it really is a dangerous thing that way
I know of somebody that tested for an airline and didn't get the job
they weren't told why.
a lot of people say the reason why, after you take a physical, will be because of the drug testing
or they would tell you.
Or this person never use any drugs.
I always,
I thought called back if you tested positive, for more tests.
you should.
you should be given another chance or at least be able to justify it or something.
I have real mixed feelings about it.
I don't know.
wrong they are?
a margin of error?
The accuracy?
I don't know.
I don't know.
I know there are a lot of things that can influence them
I think that a person deserves a second chance with it or something because most things will stay in your system for a long time.
if you could show that,
interviewed for a job recently
I was taking Entex.
my doctor gave me a prescription for it.
he said this way if it were to make the drug test positive, you have proof that your doctor ordered this for you,
it didn't come up that I needed to do it
this could happen to anybody
if they would just say this person's drug test is positive we won't hire them
Then you could lose out on a job when really you didn't do anything.
I don't know.
not so sure they are that needed.
I'm not
sure either.
The only way I can see it is that if they really suspect a person of using it, then they have the right to go ahead and prove it
they say they can spot check.
Ye , *
if you're using it while at a job, I can see a problem.
the occasional person, then an infringement of your privacy.
it sort of is.
this is it,
I'm not real sure how I feel about it because I can see it from two ways.
as a health professional, I wouldn't want somebody to take care of me that was using drugs.
as a patient, I feel we probably should be protected.
on the other hand, there's a lot of things I should be protected from that they don't test my patients for too.
I guess have to have trust some place along the way.
You can't go around testing everybody for everything.
Yeah .
I don't know.
think it could be used to hassle somebody.
If someone was out to get you, I think that a company or a boss could use this.
they could keep on doing this to you or something, I guess.
I can see where it could become a problem.
like, it seems like now they have tests
I guess they can test your hair
and they can find out if you use drugs
up to several years ago.
wow! *
maybe you shouldn't be held responsible for something you did several years ago. *
I know.
That's the other thing.
people as kids or, young people get into some things that they get out of later on
I don't think they should really have to pay for that forever.
There's a lot of things you do as a kid that
you wouldn't do as an adult
I think that's true.
you can't say it was wrong at the time.
that probably wouldn't be too good either.
How many children do you have now?
I have five.
You have five?
you do have a hard time finding time then don't you?
they're in college or just out of college
I really have just a thirteen year old at home.
You sound so young.
I work at it .
All right .
To have them,
I try to fool everybody .
I think you're doing a good job.
I just have one child.
I don't think,
there's not much I can do about it.
wife and I are, in our forties,
it's hard to raise one child without them thinking pivot point of the universe.
I think you are right
I was an only child too.
that's one reason I have so many because enjoy the big family.
my thirteen year old is pretty separate from her brother and sisters
she is sort of like an only child
it's the same type of thing,
I have a younger brother like that.
I'm in my forties, like I say
I have a brother in his twenties.
the youngest.
I understand how that worked.
he was treated like he had five fathers or something.
That's exactly how it is,
She's got all these sisters and her brother to take care of her.
When things don't go right, she just calls one of them,
a little bit difficult, though.
I think it was easier when they all had each other and could entertain each other and I was home more.
Did you all do a lot of organized things like, Little League, soccer?
really did not.
My next oldest daughter that's in college in California is a world twirling champion.
She twirls a baton
we did a lot of things together.
She and I did a lot of things together and flew,
we have flown all over the world for her to compete and to perform.
that was a lot of fun.
I guess you could consider that organized.
there is a competition all the time.
We were very heavy into that.
Other than that, they were pretty much,
and maybe dancing school for a while or mainly school sports and things like that.
I think that's probably true. The,
if you have one child or fewer, you get involved in organized events or
if you have a large number of children then you don't.
you can't afford to.
you ca ,
there's not enough time,
my son is in, Little League this year.
He's ten.
they practice three times a week
they have a game
it's just, if there were more than one child, I don't know, would be no way to do it.
That's right.
one parent go one direction
I'd have to go in the other
we could only cover two at that.
I know I spent hours in the gym every day with my daughter
my little one also competed because really she had no choice.
She had to go with me.
the three of us just spent a lot of time traveling competing
of course, the competing itself, really didn't matter what it was,
it was making the friends and going all the places
it was a really neat experience,
but it took our total time.
I did not work, when I did this.
Now I do work full time.
it's just,
my thirteen year old and myself
we really have to keep it together to get just her activities in and still have time to spend with each other.
(( )) ,
I don't think, although
I think more than one child, probably three children is probably the ideal to me
I'm not sure I could afford three.
I most certainly couldn't educate three.
I don't know how parents did it.
there were five of us
I don't recall, wanting anything in particular.
I don't know how my father did it.
He worked at a truck line
he just didn't make that kind of money with five children.
we did okay.
We had a house and a home and,
now, my wife and I both work
believe we have as much as my parents did
we only have one child.
things cost a lot more.
I don't know how it is in Georgia
I don't think our part of the country is particularly bad compared to some.
Atlanta is horrible.
Is it?
a lot of people moving here from Boston different areas
from talking to them, they're shocked.
(( Wha , ))
the housing is so cheap
in comparison to Boston
That's what I've heard.
that they jump on it.
They sell their house,
they stash away a good bit of money and come down here
I work with a lot of them,
think have really done something.
Then when they get down here, they realize the cost of living is outrageous
compared where they came from.
The housing is cheaper,
that's about it.
I'm surprised to hear that.
I've heard very positive things about Atlanta,
(( )) ,
I'm not as ashamed to claim them this year as I have been so .
let's put it this way.
We've got the New England Patriots up here
They've had some serious problems in the past couple of years.
partly due to ownership.
Victor Kiam owned Patriots
for a period of a number of years
he always had wonderful quality of being able to put his foot in his mouth every time he went to say something
they've had some financial problems with the team and so forth.
it recently was sold to, some other people
hopefully, this ownership can set up new direction and, keep, the Patriots in the New England area anyways .
it will be fun for you to watch up there anyway
to see what happens now you,
Now from Texas.
you've got two football teams down there.
it depends on where you're from in Texas.
I live right by Dallas
so we have one football team
I see.
as far as we're concerned .
That's how it is.
There's that type of segregation,
It's divided,
It really is,
we've got our Cowboys here
I don't think anybody roots differently
Do you,
I have a boyfriend that lives in Fresno
he is for
L A Raiders,
Do you follow professional sports at all?
I just started to this year because of these silly Raiders that didn't do very well ,
I've been trying more this year.
I think I know a little more than I use to.
I never knew very much at all
I'm trying .
it's a good past time,
Particularly football.
They say, football attracts more men because of the, the, the physical aggression on the field
supposedly, psychologists say men take out their frustrations by watching football
they get together with a bunch of guys
have a good time and everything
that's suppose to be some of male bonding the male instincts, I guess, or something about the,
I shouldn't even try to do it, ?
good a contest.
I think that,
I personally like hockey better because
It has the speed.
And the hand eye coordination
it takes a certain skill to play hockey.
Not everybody can play hockey.
we're a big hockey area up here,
I bet up here in New England as well
(( Really )) .
as, the Minnesota area
I don't even think we have that in Texas.
What, hockey?
We might.
Do we?
no ,
you probably know,
I don't know.
there's no hockey,
there's no .
Nobody talks about it
I don't think we do.
There's no professional hockey teams Texas (( )) .
we have a soccer team that comes and goes.
We don't even have that very much,
I think though that professional football
in particular, is becoming so diluted now.
they have this World Football League.
You see, we have the N F L Dallas
and Houston are in and New England Patriots and L A Raiders and those teams .
There are those teams that play in professional, National Football League
now they have what's called the World Football League
they have all these teams from,
there's a team in London
there's a team
there's teams in the United States
they're playing now during the summer months
it's really overkill .
there's only so much football you can watch.
I like to do,
I don't like to watch.
that's good.
I don't like to watch anything.
it kind of annoys me when people just lay in front of a T V and watch all this stuff.
I think it's an,
excuse to do nothing
can see what you're saying about the male bonding
guys get together
that's kind of cool.
That's fun,
it can get really overdone.
have you ever been to a professional football game?
I have.
Have you?
I have.
Did you do the tailgate party and the whole,
that's what you got to do,
we talked our,
I've done that for college football.
You, the,
the same thing.
talked our wives,
there's about six or eight guys that we use to go out for these games.
we talked our wives into going with us one time
they had a real good time
it was, basically, for the social atmosphere.
that's the thing,
You go, three or four hours before the game.
You go set up.
We set a table up,
we do some cooking, some barbecueing, have a few drinks
and then go in and see the game and see the Patriots lose and then go home and eat, drink some more.
that whole,
not so much, the contest itself and the game itself,
but it's the whole atmosphere of playing, of going to a game. *
I ,
that you miss sitting home in your parlor, a six pack of beer and some, potato chips,
That's right.
miss that.
that's right.
any professional sport I think,
you miss that.
The atmosphere of being there,
in high school I went to every football game
I twirled,
I still don't know that much about football, obviously.
I still had a good time.
Well foot ,
think about this?
do you have children in school?
I do.
I have two that are, now just about ready to graduate from college
I also have two that are just entering school.
you see a big difference then in before and
now do you
I think they're just pushing them to fast.
A lot of testing?
it seems to me that kindergarten is now the equivalent of first grade.
My son leaves the house at seven thirty and doesn't get home until three o'clock.
I think that's such a long day for a kindergartner.
I do too,
think that's awful.
I have a preschooler.
I was told by her preschool teacher that she thought maybe she was to immature for kindergarten
I thought how mature do you have to be .
I know.
What's the new criteria,
there is a,
do you have the standardized testing now?
We have all kinds of testing
it's over and over.
It's I T B S just
they test, test, test.
I live in Plano actually
I don't know if you've heard of Plano
it's a very transient community.
A lot of people from everywhere,
it's just north of Dallas
it's grown in leaps and bounds.
must have maybe a hundred and fifty thousand people now.
most of them from other places.
J C Penney's come down from New York and, of course, T I and Xerox from Rochester
we just,
have lots of people from everywhere.
Lots of industry coming in,
it's a very wealthy community.
not that I am
other people seem,
to be
I would love to know why
they do.
They have,
you would like to know what they're doing right .
I really would.
they just have beautiful, beautiful homes
they have everything.
The kids only wear name brand things to school
it's one of these things,
that makes it hard for you, doesn't it.
it does,
It really does because I'm a single mom and I have a thirteen year old now
it does.
we do it to a point
not to where she feels different,
It's hard to explain to them why you can't.
some of them are very rich
we just kind of have,
everything here
we have a very goal oriented population because their parents are.
I don't know how much of it,
is us and how much of it is Texas
the kids are expected to excel in,
it's almost impossible because you have so many children and just so many activities that everybody can't be first
expected to be.
their parents expect it,
the teachers expect it,
Texas wants very badly to be considered tops in the school system
Right .
if you read national surveys, they're far from it.
(( there's )) just a whole lot of testing and a whole lot of pushing to do well on these tests.
How about the kids.
How are they coping with it?
not very well.
They bring home notes that say they have to get a good night's sleep
and eat right in the morning before,
they make a big deal.
To me, the paper should just be put on the desk that day
say just do this.
I just feel they do better that way.
Rather than
I have older children too that now are out of high school
they've always done this here.
it's always been the same
getting worse and worse,
is more pressure for everything. *
I just think it's really awful
with you on that.
You don't hear too many people say this,
I think it's a very long day.
it is.
my feeling is that, you're only a kid once, you don't want to
That's right.
spend your whole life in school.
My son came home
Mom, all we do is work.
We hardly ever play
I don't think that's right.
I think we should do what Europe does and include cultural activities in our school system.
I don't think I should have to pay for dancing lessons, gymnastics, piano.
I would like to see those things included in our school system
Wouldn't that be great.
because I think we should have well rounded kids
not just book smart kids.
I just find this a real problem.
I think if they're going to be there all day, they should find time.
One of my daughters, once, was out of school with Mono in her junior year I think it was.
she had a home teacher for like four hours a week
when she went back in six weeks, she was ahead.
Is that right?
does that tell you?
It tells you there's a whole
my gosh.
lot of wasted time.
my gosh.
they could be using this time better.
for example, in my son's kindergarten. They're really finished at lunch time.
After lunch, they have some,
I'm trying to think if they have recess after lunch,
then they have naps or rest period.
I think either send them home or do something
That's a very long day for kindergartners.
a little more interesting.
I agree.
I think that working parents have kind of demanded this.
I wouldn't be surprised.
want to send them to daycare.
I doubt if they would say it was too long .
That's why they want them there because them somebody takes care of them all day .
do you have the before school care,
at your school and the after school care?
We have them at one school
This is Archie.
Hi, Archie.
I'm Sharon.
Have you seen DANCING WITH WOLVES?
I've seen that,
a really good movie.
Probably one of the best things about it was the scenery
I thought the story was pretty good, too.
think Kevin Costner did a really good job with it.
Have you ever lived in that part of the country?
I haven't.
Have you ever visited it?
I've visited the Wyoming area.
I'm not sure exactly where DANCES WITH WOLVES was filmed.
I think it was the black hills of South Dakota.
Could be.
been to South Dakota.
you been up to that?
I lived in Omaha for five,
that rolling kind of,
(( fairly famili , )) .
The thing that I thought was interesting was that the critics,
apparently it's going to win everything.
I had been told, you wouldn't notice that it was three hours long, and all this,
That's true.
kind of,
I agree with that.
noticed yesterday in the paper, something said that it,
I think it's been nominated for twelve awards
all the critics initially said that, it wouldn't go anywhere, that it was just going to be a dud.
has surprised everybody.
the interesting thing I had heard that,
I tend to, I think, overreact occasionally when somebody tells me it's that great.
a good story.
I guess that's what I really like.
Although, I must admit I did look at my watch after about an hour.
Did you?
Have you seen SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY?
that's really great, though.
have to go see that one.
how about SILENCE OF THE LAMB?
You must really keep up.
I do.
I go every weekend .
those are two definite must see movies, I think.
SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY, isn't that a,
it, is it a terror movie
is it just suspenseful?
It's suspenseful.
I don't think it's very t ,
there's not really any, blood and guts in it or anything like that.
more suspense.
the other one, SILENCE OF THE LAMBS, is kind of gory movie, somebody's not into that kind of stuff.
pretty graphic at points.
I think they're both excellent movies.
listen to Gary Cogill?
No. *
do you know who he is?
Somebody in South Carolina told me about him.
He's movie critic.
He's a movie critic on channel eight in Dallas.
a talk show on the, K L I F.
Anyway, it's on from seven to nine, or something.
people call in
kind of interesting.
There's a certain a mount of dribble that they do.
a couple of kids, ten or twelve years old,
they call in
they review movies.
it's interesting.
You listen to him
go watch the movie.
In fact, just seen,
I was listening Sunday night a little bit when,
I was going to pick up my daughter.
anyway, it was, the,
interesting, though,
difficulty DANCING WITH WOLVES is that when you make a movie like that, and you produce it, and then you star in it, the question is, really know it was going to be good *
did he just do it?
he really,
his heart was in it,
don't think he really knew it was going to be as big as it was.
I think it was something that he really wanted to do.
He wanted to direct it,
he wanted star in it.
enjoyed the story line
I think it.
won all kinds of awards or whether it just was okay at the box office, I think he would have been happy.
he did a good job
the self satisfaction he got out of it is much greater than any awards that they can give him.
Do you know who the guy was that was playing the wagon driver?
A little piece of trivia.
the guy when he first headed out from the army post.
I don't know who that guy is.
plays on MURPHY BROWN.
he does?
As a recurring character every week?
he's Eldon, her housepainter.
Can you,
believe that?
a never put those two together.
one of those interesting pieces of trivia that somebody said, did you notice that?
I thought, no, it's really funny.
I thought,
you think back,
it was him, but with a
with the beard and all that stuff.
real scruffy looking .
Real scruffy looking,
really funny, he winds up playing in the movie.
I thought, it's good that,
it was a lot of fun.
I don't know how long this conversation is supposed to go
we're at about five minutes.
I should think we've done enough.
You think so?
I haven't been watching my watch.
I guess,
Does it usually cut off?
Is that what,
I don't know.
it does?
Why do we end this thing?
It used to,
I think it just says hang up.
it used to just automatically cut off
it says when the conversation is over just say your good byes and hang up.
Why don't we do that?
guess so.
Good bye Sharon.
Good talking to you Archie .
how is it appropriate to be talking about exercise attitudes? .
husband is right now teaching an aerobics class.
He's an aerobics instructor. And, is going to be, entering North Texas for a Kinesiology program there. *
how I met him was through, the aerobics class that he used to teach.
You're a student?
an avid aerobics, person and just very, very athletic.
how do you feel about it? .
a person who wishes I had more time to exercise.
I don't feel like I,
I don't very often do things for the sake of exercise.
I don't feel well unless I am exercising
I try to do things that involve exercise,
I very rarely do things like,
I've never done aerobics or any sort of structured,
this is my exercise time
I do lots of outdoor sports and things, bicycling, mountaineering, a little mountaineering, this and that,
I spend a lot of time
I probably get more exercise than your average person.
it's not structured sort of thing,
I have to admit I have a certain resistance to the idea of exercising for exercising's sake,
perhaps, it's because somehow that implies to me it's not fun, or something like that.
that's the way my mother stands on it.
She feels like if it's something that you have to do,
if you look at it as if you have to do it,
then a chore,
she doesn't enjoy it when it's a chore.
I feel that way too as far as, just sitting and the idea of doing fifty sit ups or something,
you're a calcu ,
calculated down
do your calisthenics,
three times a week
regulate how much exercise I get a week.
Is that why you like aerobics classes, because someone else is doing the counting for you, so,
it makes it less of a chore?
it's got,
I've always enjoyed dance.
it involves,
can't get out to dance all the time
would that we could .
more regulated,
I mean using different parts of the body.
is like dance,
it's structured like that,
you have the music, and else is counting,
it makes it easier for me.
someone else is telling me, okay, let's move this way, let's move that way,
instead of me having to think about it so much.
You can just trust someone else to give you full exercise
all you do is follow along and enjoy yourself.
I'm like you,
I also, like to participate in, things like,
we just went to the, Myererson Symphony Run this past weekend,
that was a lot of fun
you get to meet different people,
and, just get out,
out and about,
it's something you can all,
like our,
we did it as a family,
quite a lot of fun.
I love to swim,
I love it when, it's swimming weather,
you're talking to someone from California where it's often swimming weather .
I didn't realize that.
I'm sorry.
I'm in Texas.
just assumed that I had,
this is the first call I've done,
I didn't realize that they were going to reach out to people from,
all over the country.
You wouldn't know that .
act , it's actually,
it's interesting, because there are regional differences.
in California there's, almost an assumption,
unless you're, sort of, clearly of an older generation, or something, in your sixties, or something like that,
I'm not.
there's an assumption that you do something for your physical fitness, at least in urban California.
maybe not,
I don't know about rural California too well.
in urban California it's just,
for all I know aerobics started out here.
I don't know where they actually started,
the craze really picked up big here
before that there was the running craze.
California to be a bit faddish,
the remarkable thing is how well the fads catch on elsewhere.
there must be something to some of them.
I think people more inc ,
people from California seem to be more health motivated all around. as far as the diet, and everything. the diet and, just your health consciousness,
it just,
seems like, a lot of those ideas generate out of California.
Not just exercise, but,
related ideas.
it's curious, I don't know why, don't know if it's,
do you,
does California have a,
there's a sense of it being a package,
I think. is a sense of, whole,
there's a lot of,
you'll get organizations, like institutes for the whole health, or whatever.
the of California at Berkeley puts out THE WELLNESS LETTER. Which turned into a fairly well subscribed to, newsletter,
monthly or biweekly newsletter or something like that
it doesn't deal with just exercise, or just stress management, or just diet, or anything.
on fairly scientific ground.
it's just dispensed with these distinctions.
It says all sorts of factors go into health and there's no reason to talk about one rather than another, so that combined them all together.
it's had that orientation for quite some time.
there's been some progressive medical schools out here,
huh .
that have taken that approach.
do you think that's because they've realized that for whole health, that, you have to have that combination, or that people are motivated that way so that they've incorporated that into their program.
Do you think the program came first or the,
there's a,
can say there's a correlation, but I couldn't say caused the other.
a little bit and then would feed off one another and develop a little bit more, and a little bit more.
the more money they put into it.
I can see that.
from institutes of learning like that, I know that they've got to get their money somewhere,
somebody's got to be willing to pay for it, and believe in it,
part of it is California,
the sixties, had a lot of alternative movements
some of them fizzled out
some of them were disastrous
others of them, had an impact on the society around here.
one of the ones that had an impact was, people becoming interested in alternate practices,
(( I'm not sure )) if it was a meditation practice, or if it was, similar to a stress management practice or alternates to, A M A approved medicine.
you have, major, acupuncture schools and things out here.
you could have them around long enough
more and more people start believing them or wondering how to combine them with other things,
before long, get whole kind of Gestalt, this whole package health, of health care and options
exercise strongly considered one of them.
The irony its people in the cities, in my experience, that are most oriented towards doing the exercise.
I guess because they spend all day in back of their desks.
The average person out on the farm, at least traditionally, A now they drive fancy tractors as much as anything
but at least traditionally, the laborers,
last thing,
Or they're older.
Pardon me.
don't you think they tend to be older in the rural ar .
sometimes think that it's almost frantic effort on the part of the people in the city.
like everything else.
I live in a rural area,
The rat race to exercise .
I see that. *
it's it's frantic, to,
to, achieve, something a person in a rural area, almost doesn't worry about it to such a degree, but stays, almost healthier, *
as a fit person .
I think so.
I know a little bit about people who were considered very healthy in China
they don't do very much vigorous exercise at all.
they do a lot of low keyed, low impact, low stress exercise,
they combine it with a, meditation or whatever. Some sort of relaxation
they seem pretty,
they don't have the hard body.
They don't have that perfect look,
an awful lot of exercise is sort of image conscious.
live to a hundred and ten some ,
don't you think a lot of that is diet too?
a lot of that is diet.
That's true.
a lot of carbohydrates, and not much fat.
for economical reasons, not for preference.
as we can see.
practicing vegetarian
I've read a lot of information, knowing that to be true,
am I actually.
What's that?
are you also ,
Yes .
good as far as the cal ,
pretty predominant as far as California do , doe ,
It is in the urban areas,
In the urban areas?
restaurants in an urban area will have a little vegetarian section now.
that's wonderful.
looking restaurants will,
you can,
That's great,
you just have to eat at home basically.
I was wondering that,
I was actually applying for a job in Texas,
of course in the cities,
it occurred to me,
in the cities,
we live close to Dallas,
you get, an influx of a lot of people from all over the country,
you're going to have
in urban areas it's, steak places,
it's not a,
it's changing to a degree,
it's very frustrating. *
with health food stores and stores where you can buy natural products or, organic, materials,
and foods and things.
You don't really have that,
you would think.
All (( righty )) .
I'll just hand it off to you
hobbies in our spare time is what we've been selected to discuss today.
the hobbies that I pursue in my spare time, are crafts
I've been involved in making, hat stands and, rag dolls and, different type hats with, flowers and roses, and, that kind of thing, straw hats and,
Oh .
all that kind of stuff.
I enjoy it,
it's relaxing.
you kind of get absorbed in it
the time goes by, before you realize anything is going on.
I play the organ sometimes, just for my own satisfaction . Not for anybody else's ears
I'm not that good at it,
I like to bang on the keyboards once in a while.
How about yourself?
hobbies, gee whiz,
I guess I got too many hobbies
I never have time to deal with them.
I like photography a lot,
that's neat.
I used to do that a lot
I like,
we have a new child that will be a year old here next week,
I'll take a lot of pictures of her,
that's great,
and spoil them,
first one, you know how that is.
I play the guitar and a banjo.
I mainly play the guitar a lot,
I play about every night.
I really love that,
if I had a (( druther )) ,
it on the road, I'd like to play on a bluegrass band or something,
that sounds nice.
I like bluegrass, too.
I've done it before when I was school and college,
and thoroughly enjoyed it,
it's really blast.
My wife hates it,
that's the way life is, I guess.
That's the hard part, right?
If you can do things together, that really helps a lot.
(( )) yeah,
she's, into aerobics,
that's good, too.
we did aerobics together for about a month and a half
that went over real well,
that's about it there.
it's good
it's healthy, too.
We do that too,
we have treadmill and, a bicycle and that kind of stuff,
we try to get twenty minutes at least three for four times a week,
that's great.
That's great.
we like movies,
that ki ,
spare time,
with a child it's, kind of stra ,
we have,
we're looking for a baby sitter
we've been out twice this year so far.
By ourselves without the child
it's kind of, become an issue you could say.
I like, messing around in your house building things, and,
that's great, too.
putting cabinets up, and,
those kind of things,
we did some remodeling when we bought a house,
we a kitchen in and, that kind of stuff, and painting and some wallpapering,
that's fun.
It's really kind of fun.
It is.
It really is.
Especially if your spouse will get in there with you and get dirty,
I like things that, two people can do,
I like the quiet of doing things away,
kind of gives you some space for yourself,
that's what I find in making the dolls and things, that it gives me something that I can create,
I like to crochet and knit.
I made some afghans and that kind of stuff.
I like doing things with my hands.
Sounds like it.
Do you like to cook?
I love to cook.
I love to cook, too,
Italian food .
pizzas and spaghettis and lasagnas and that kind of stuff.
we're all skinny farts
when it comes to,
I like to cook and eat and,
to have, I guess, I get to (( ))
amount of people eat, *
and then say, man this is really good,
it is.
it just,
work in the garden, work around the yard, of course,
Do you do barbecues?
we sure do,
smoke them an ,
smoking and all that stuff?
all that hoedown stuff.
All that stuff that's bad for you.
lived in Abilene for a little while,
and, worked in the Abilene plant,
we used to go to Joe Allen's Barbecue,
that was great.
Really great,
they have some nice stuff down there.
only way to do it.
I miss it .
pluses to everything,
seems like there's just so many things to do down here,
I like the sports,
I play a lot of racquetball.
horseback riding, too,
in fact, when my children were growing up, we always had horses
that was kind of for them,
they weren't as interested in it as we were,
that was a real,
I'd say probably for maybe fifteen years, we dabbled in that,
we always had horses around,
I really enjoyed that,
that's great,
sounds like you,
I was disappointed when I went to Texas.
I didn't see that many of them.
Yes .
you really don't.
you have to look real hard to see a lot of things besides concrete,
I know,
I know,
it's true.
there's buildings and concrete and a lot of people
that's about it down here,
that's great.
sounds like you have a lot of nice hobbies there.
you too,
you too.
I know it's probably late for you,
I enjoyed speaking with you
Me too.
have a good weekend.
Bye bye.
the thing that I,
since I'm in school I don't, basically have a monthly budget because I'm living off my dad,
the thing that, I have to keep it under control because, for example, it's like beginning of the semester when you go to pay for everything, everything is pretty rough,
he controls that part
then whenever,
it's like, once the semester starts I'm the one who has to control how much spending there is.
the only thing that basically spend my money on is just food
What about tuition and rent?
Who takes care of that?
the thing that I live in a dorm.
what happens is you pay six hundred dollars at the beginning or even before school starts.
the tuition is also the same thing.
the thing basically that I spend, maybe thirty five, forty dollars every two weeks groceries
that's about it.
the thing, also is that, if you want to go out if you want to go to a restaurant or something, then I have to moderate that because it's like I can't go eat out at a nice restaurant and spend twenty dollars, three times a week.
you can't do that very often.
us, it's like, can spend, I can spend that money
what I want to spend it on,
you working anywhere while you are going to school?
they don't allow me to work since, I'm a foreign student.
doesn't allow me to work.
all the money comes from home.
you got to make,
how do you keep track of where you are your monthly spending?
the thing that, know how much I have, right?
the thing that can tell
get all my money out of the teller.
besides one of my biggest expenses is telephone calls since I have to call, international.
Where do you call to?
the bas ,
one of the problems is that I spend too much money on phone bills.
talk too long.
want me to call down there every so often.
I told my dad, if you want to save money I won't call so often,
he goes, we want to keep in touch
I doesn't matter about the money because we need to hear from you.
you call him collect?
Because it is more expensive that way.
(( What makes you )) ,
think so?
basically the United States is the cheapest country to call out of.
it's considered a luxury in other countries.
you just call him direct
Since it's his money anyway,
bill and send it to him?
I got money to pay that, too.
it's basically,
not too much money,
it's not too little money,
I won't have to, rush a letter to him or something,
he really wants me to concentrate on my studies.
I'm doing masters in computer science and computer engineering.
what do you think you'll do with that?
With those degrees?
work to a year.
And hopefully get a job after that.
You want to get into some kind of manufacturing,
what's the specialty that your looking for?
computer communications and data transmissions.
you want to find a, data transmissions,
you're looking for, long distance
type stuff.
anywhere from, local area networks, metropolitan area networks, all that,
you have a family, right?
I have a wife and two children
your wife work?
She doesn't work,
she does,
it's kind of hard to say now days, other than taking care of the house, she does a lot of sewing herself.
she gets paid for that
she brings some money in.
She is trying to start own business where she does that full time.
Alterations and sewing.
Stuff for the public
do that full time basis here in town.
you have a monthly budget?
We're probably like most families, I guess, that we sort of have a budget in that we know how much we've got at the end of the month,
we know what bills have to be paid,
we pay as many of those bills that can be paid the monthly budget,
you don't have any problem in, overcharging on your credit card, and stuff like that.
We're like everybody else,
we've got credit cards that sometimes, instead of paying them all off every month maybe you have to slip some you pay part of it this month and part of it next month especially around Christmas time.
that's when everybody goes crazy on charging stuff.
one of the points which I don't see,
don't give a lot of gifts during Christmas
don't wa , I don't like to give any at all
the thing that, it's like if I want something ask somebody,
my roommate goes, what do you want.
I said, I want a backpack.
I told him if you want to give me a present for Christmas give me a backpack.
that's something that you can use.
needed a backpack.
he gave me a backpack,
knew he needed an alarm clock.
I bought him an alarm clock.
That's great. *
the thing was
(( Necessary things )) , no frivolous gifts.
the thing is, especially remember when I was down in Argentina ridiculous,
you have to,
once a year you go out
you spend all this money on all these people,
some you don't care about,
it's like,
That's true,
why bother.
the thing that,
especially being a college student
I don't know that you need to be involved in a lot of frivolous gift giving,
that effects the budget especially around, Christmas time
at the end of the semester you've got finals and lots of bills I would suspect.
What about when you have breaks like, Christmas or between sessions?
for example, we had spring break now,
I went skiing
I spent around like, maybe, two hundred dollars.
I expect so.
its like,
You've got to budget that though.
You've got to save up (( in able to do )) that, right?
Because let's go eat out before spring break.
I go, let's not go eat out,
(( )) .
before spring break.
Let's see how much money we have afterwards.
Right, (( )) .
if I felt like I spent way to much then, I won't go out,
my roommate went home,
I went skiing the Carolina Mountains which aren't anything,
I guess it was worth it,
Sure it is,
any time you can get away,
it was a nice place.
get away the daily grind.
especially if you live on campus, and you don't have a car, you just go crazy.
I know the feeling.
let's see how long have we been talking here
six minutes and a half.
Is that okay?
All right.
All right.
nice talking to you.
Nice talking to you.
Have a good time.
All right.
Bye bye.
what do you like to cook?
to cook foods I like to eat.
I like to eat Italian food best.
I find that that's pretty easy to cook because a lot of it is one dish meals, type things and,
they're kind of convenient.
That would be good for a dinner party, because you don't have to deal with eight different things,
coming out at once.
Is that what you usually cook when you have a party.
I usually have parties that are smaller groups.
a real big dinner party except at traditional holidays like Thanksgiving and such.
I guess I usually do.
I like to cook, heavy sauces, and,
that sounds good.
noodles and pasta and such.
fattening .
actually .
How about you,
what do you like cook?
it's funny that, we're talking about this,
we just had a dinner party
we had,
our senior pastor and his wife came over.
I catered to their diet is the only thing, though,
it wasn't something I really wanted to make.
I really wanted to make red beans and rice with (( )) .
I'm from New Orleans originally.
I was going to make that, red beans and rice with Cajun sausage and French bread with garlic butter and stuff,
there's salad
then for desert I really wanted to make, just brownies
French donuts would have been good,
it's real hard to make them.
They don't really come out like they do in New Orleans, up here,
I don't know why.
I don't know if it's me or the water or the recipe I have
Humidity or something.
that's what I want.
That's what I like to make is just real neat stuff like that
Kind of like the Italian,
it's really good,
instead I catered to their diet
I made baked chicken in the crock pot
it was good and everything,
it had all the vegetables in it,
it seemed kind of boring compared ,
It down played compared to what you would like, huh.
Do you find yourself, with all the, cholesterol high fiber changing the way
I find it changing the way that I eat, but not the way I entertain,
I feel like if they're on a diet like that, I'm going to, honor that,
if it's just
another couple came, over a couple weeks later
I made,
what did I make that night.
I made a roast,
I made,
I can't believe this
my husband broke the coffee pot I just bought yesterday.
I can't believe that.
Anyway, I asked,
when (( Ricky )) and (( Carrie )) came over we made, a pot roast with rice and gravy and salad and the whole bit.
normally like that during the week because of calories and the fat in it.
when we're having guests, we just kind of say, oh just do it.
I made blueberry cobbler
we had extra crust with it,
it was so fattening.
That sounds good.
I don't think we gained any weight from it
every once in a while think I feel the same way.
When I'm entertaining, I don't take that thing into consideration unless it's really, really,
a lot of women will turn down dessert if it's too rich simply because they don't want the extra calories,
I think dessert is the only thing that I kind of down play, sometimes.
I made an apple pan (( downy )) when the pastor and his wife came over
she didn't eat it.
I did bake apples so that it would be, not brownies,
I figured there was less calories in apple pan (( downy )) than in fudge brownies.
I've (( read )) a good brownie recipe.
that's good.
I guess that's about what I did when I entertained.
do you have anything else you want to say about it?
nothing comes to mind right off,
I guess not.
it was nice talking to you.
you too.
Bye, bye.
All right,
would like to talk about, just briefly What happened over there in Saudi Arabia in the political context.
I think it's, refreshing to see support that the President got from the American people.
I, I read an interesting article in the paper that discussed, that,
seemed that every other time a President tried to get support for an action like, President Carter and his thing with hostage crisis,
he always did it through rhetoric.
this time President Bush did it through action
he drove policy by the course he took and almost forced public support,
he left almost no alternative.
That's right .
it was very interesting how he did it
an Air Force Officer,
it was interesting for me,
I'd certainly,
I think it's great that all the support.
I have, friends of mine from the Air,
an engineer and work in the Rolm Laboratory,
other here on base,
this is a B fifty two base where I work,
we had about a thousand people gone from the base that went over there
they're getting a tremendous amount of support out of it.
That's great,
you remember, the vote in the Congress to authorize war, if necessary, was actually pretty close.
it was.
my memory serves me right, I believe a majority of Democrats may even have opposed it,
know the exact figure
would imagine that because of how close vote was I mean almost certainly would have to be.
Just based on Democrats and Republicans in Congress he'd think that it would have to have been,
That's right.
gosh whole thing now with political cartoons on the Democrats and how they're,
they're a sad way for ninety two now in terms of the presidential election, anyway.
Especially the ones that came out and said, oh come on guys, let's talk about this little while longer.
how many years are we going to wait
do you do with the people that are over there in the mean time.
I think that was,
all those factors played a part in, the,
No doubt.
everyone was discussing whether we should, wait longer,
I know that there's a lot of reasons to wait longer
I think we were genuinely concerned about their military capability
over estimated it,
I think so too.
we were really, highly concerned about it
they were getting dug in
they were,
in fact they were so well dug in that, when we sent our tanks around behind them they couldn't get turned around in time.
it's true
Saddam thought he had the whole thing, figured out which way we were coming and our doctrine was
we done a frontal assault it probably would have worked more to his favor.
That's right,
that's true.
That's interesting,
I think, this political situation over there now is,
it'll be interesting to see what comes out of it whether opposition will,
today the Turks, agreed to support the Kurds, which is something they've never done before
this, *
the Arabs all of a sudden cheering for Baker on his drive reconcile relations with the Israelis,
it's like ,
Baker is really not very much pro Israel.
did you know John Sununu is, half Arab?
think I did hear that at one time a long time ago,
I used to live in, Massachusetts,
fact, when he was Governor of New Hampshire, I believe.
New Hampshire.
I believe he was the only one of fifty governors that voted against some kind of resolution of support for Israel a few years back.
my gosh.
now he is a conservative,
he is not a conservative that favors Israel,
concerns me greatly.
I don't,
I'd certainly, support Israel policy in defending themselves and their handling of their foreign policy,
the stand they have, the way the command respect, support that.
I think that is positive thing for them after, thousands of years,
I think they in,
when they a country they less decided they weren't going to take it anymore,
they didn't have much choice,
they could either fight or die.
exactly, exactly
I lost my train of thought here.
I can't say whether I'm pro Israel or anti Israel.
I'd like to see them resolve something in that situation and get some stability in the region
looks that the joining of forces for this, Desert Shield and Desert Storm thing ended up being a positive thing.
It is a positive thing,
however, every time an organization such as the P L O says we'll see if we can work with Israel, then, they get embarrassed every few months by documents that reveal that their ultimate purpose is to totally eliminate them.
basically have, mutually exclusive interests,
either Israel is going to occupy the area,
the Arabs are going to occupy the area
I'm just not sure there's going to be any easy permanent solution.
somebody's going to,
I think that's the problem the P L O has is that decides that they're going to negotiate, or they're going to do something, they're going to try to make some peace, the end result is that so many factions of them some more violent than others, some with a certain agenda different than the others, or they split,
they end up divisive themselves.
it's interesting,
It is.
I'm looking forward to seeing what happens over there in the next couple of months,
commend Israel for their restraint in not responding to the Scud attacks.
I know,
that's absolutely unprecedented
that was,
incredible foreign policy coup on the part of the President and the State Department.
never happened before,
I don't know if it will ever happen again
May not.
it's been fun, I talking with you.
I guess, maybe the computer will pair us up together another time.
You never know.
All right.
Bye, bye.
Bye, bye.
Hello there.
Did I reach the Dallas area?
I beg your pardon?
Did I reach the Dallas area?
you've reached Dayton, Ohio.
Dayton, Ohio,
I'm from North Carolina.
you're from North Carolina.
Where in North Carolina?
In Raleigh.
. *
my name's Mary.
My name is Fernando. *
Fernando, glad to know you.
do you,
how'd you find out about this?
I was visiting my son down in Dallas,
he works for T I.
his wife has a contract with T I,
that's how we learned about it,
I'm down at N C State.
I took a class,
he said, sign up and get some money
Right .
and just talk for five minutes.
are you ready?
I'm ready.
let's get started.
All right,
what do you think, that,
what do you think we can do to solve the crime in America?
if I knew that I'd be a very wealthy person.
what are the steps?
you have to see,
look at it, you have to think first of all why, *
crime increased,
if so, why has crime increased?
the problem that, what happens is that go from the country to a city, crime always increases, right?
in the country, people still respect, the property of other people.
the people in the country don't want as much as the people in the city.
what happens is all those that don't have any money in the country move to the cities,
they rush to get the same thing.
They say, why can't we have the same things that these other people have,
the thing that we can do is, we need money for drugs,
what we have to do is, we have to go, get some stuff, steal it, and then, just resell it.
It's easy,
you said the magic word there.
Which one?
that certainly is one reason why crime here has increased.
the main reason I think, everywhere
you have deaths.
you have murders
you have, people stealing other people's stuff,
a lot of it has to do with drugs.
It doesn't have to do,
the thing that, it's like you might be standing somewhere, right,
let's say you're, you're driving out
you're driving back home
it's late at night.
you stop by one of these, twenty four hour, gas stations joints.
somebody walks in there with a gun.
they're going to want the money,
you can tell by the people who are always caught, that these people are there to get money for drugs.
they don't want the money they can do something else with it.
they don't want the money for food,
that's for sure.
is that you can go back as far as nineteen fifty one and fifty two and find that there were drug dealers at that time trying to influence the high school kids,
I'm a retired educator.
Okay .
in fifty one and fifty two, the police came to the high school where I was and were telling us how to recognize when kids were on drugs, how to recognize the pushers
outside the one entrance, that they were giving their drugs away in order to get the kids started, and so on, and so on.
it's a problem that's been around for over forty years,
we're just really, now, trying to, figure out how to cope with the problem because it has grown so huge.
song that I know which says, tha ,
it's like, in, nineteen eighty eight, nineteen eighty nine, the local, state, and federal governments spent the least amount of money on crime in America,
their figures, I think are
it's like, weapons or stuff like that, you're spending nothing crime in the country itself.
What you're doing is, you,
it's like, you have other things,
you have the AIDS
we're going to solve, try to solve
the AIDS problem some people are getting killed here and there
another one of the problems is that the people who are the dealers, the big dealers in drugs,
part of the power structure that's keeping us from spending the money in that direction.
those people never get caught.
The people that
That's right,
they'll never get caught.
that, that I,
their theory is that if I'm surrounded, and I'm going to be caught, I'm going to try to find my way through,
they're not going to take me alive.
I have such a big army outside of my place, that nobody can touch me.
That's right.
it's like,
of course, I might be, leading drug dealer here,
you won't find me dealing in drugs,
there's no connection
That's right.
between me and the people that were caught,
That's right,
one person doesn't know the other person down the line.
the guy at the very top, the one really making the millions and the millions is the one who also many times is part of the power structure, and had the political
pull to the interest or the emphasis in some other direction, other than on the drug dealing,
it sure is monstrous in this country.
party on Saturday,
this guy comes over,
he goes, hey, how you doing, (( ))
he started talking to me,
this guy was from Jamaica, right.
he's got his little brother selling drugs .
he goes, yeah, I just came up here to work,
I go, oh you did, (( )) you make very good money up here.
He goes, yeah, I make a lot, a lot of money,
he goes,
in the movie GOOD FELLOWS.
might. *
Did you see it?
I only heard about it.
in one part, the guy goes out of jail,
within, two months, he has all his house payments gone
everything paid,
he had enough money to,
it's like, those guys, at one point, they had so much money that they didn't know what to do with it .
even in our prison systems they're finding that having drugs smuggled into them.
was also in the movie.
hello Mary.
Been nice talking with you.
We've been talking for five minutes?
I beg your,
we've been talking for a little bit.
I appreciate the call.
I enjoyed talking with you.
All right, okay,
same here.
bye bye.
Bye bye.
Cindy, have you seen DANCES WITH WOLVES?
I haven't.
Have you?
that is a wonderful movie.
it's not,
the length isn't too long?
goodness no.
(( )) . *
realize it,
we all heard different opinions about it.
one that,
it was too long
they thought it was going to end,
it didn't,
it kept going on
I thought it was great.
I've seen, some different clips of it,
looks good,
it's just I haven't had the time to go to the movies lately .
I heard a story about certain scene in the movie on a buffalo hunt.
they have a particular child actor, being supposedly run down by a buffalo.
when they were trying to film that, the buffalo that they used for that scene was Neil Young's buffalo.
I can't remember what they said his name was.
he has a fetish for Oreo cookies.
oh ,
he got him to run like he was running down the kid by luring him with oreo cookies .
that'd work for me,
let me tell you .
I thought that was really funny.
Now I've seen another clip of, the guy that plays in MURPHY BROWN,
I don't know his name,
he played the character in it that was
I saw the one clip of him
it was first,
I guess he was taking Kevin Costner to the site where he was going to be or whatever.
That was rather, gross .
other than that I've heard the, the scenery in it
is absolutely beautiful.
the costuming *
was, *
the only thing about the costuming my husband remarked the Indians all appeared to be wearing new things.
they should have taken them out and rolled them in the dirt a little more
the material
did very authentic reproductions of the,
The styles,
of the actual stuff,
age it
quite enough it seemed.
it was a very good movie.
I guess I will have to see it then.
What have you seen lately?
actually have been to the movies,
I think the last movie I saw was MISERY.
I didn't see that.
very suspenseful.
like Stephen King.
I really don't either,
I went with someone,
once I was there, I couldn't believe.
it's an excellent movie.
I wasn't sure,
just generally, that kind of scary stuff just don't want to have anything to do with it.
scary as it is suspenseful.
it's not.
I think I heard somebody talking about that she cuts his foot off or something,
the book apparently she cuts his feet off,
in the movie disables him, but not by cutting his feet.
breaks both of his ankles.
that I couldn't watch,
you could tell when it was coming.
that was so that he couldn't leave her,
It still just seems a little twisted to me .
I'm not sure I would have enjoyed that at all.
Yeah, *
well, as far as that goes,
you wouldn't like to see
it was just how she got so caught up,
her emotions
she feel madly in love with this writer.
there was this,
she was a killer,
character been someone that had killed other people
no one knew that.
we just haven't had the time to go to the movies lately,
I know,
we don't see movies at the movies a lot.
The last,
we did go see DANCES WITH WOLVES
we went to see NOT WITHOUT MY DAUGHTER,
mostly we wait until they come out on video tape,
we rent them .
Now I want to see SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY.
that looks really good too.
yeah, *
that looks good.
there were a couple others that I just haven't had the time.
And SILENCE OF THE LAMBS.
intrigued by it,
I'm not sure I want to go see it yet .
I don't think I want to see that either.
I know,
I don't think I could.
I think,
we had some friends that went to see it
they said it was okay.
it might not be as,
I think they may be playing up
some aspects of the movie that aren't the main aspects.
(( )) .
we went to see the JAGGED EDGE.
I liked that movie.
seems like, that kind of
thriller suspense and real, strange in other ways.
I guess that's about it.
It was nice.
Maybe we'll talk to you again.
it was nice talking to you.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
let's see.
I think,
I guess, if I call I'm supposed to start.
I think, that's the way everybody has done it so far.
anyway I think that, we are paying a lot in taxes,
I think that we have a government and we have a lot of freedoms, and we have a lot of things that the governments do with our money.
we're probably one of only countries in the world that has all the things that we have.
as far as the quality of the streets, the school systems, the hospital stuff that the government gives money to. the, all the things that the government does like that. think they need to manage it a little bit better,
I don't think, anybody is just going to come in and fix it in a couple of weeks, because they've been messing it up for many years, now.
I have to agree that . *
you're right.
we do have a good government.
We do have a lot of things the taxes are there to support,
I do think they're mismanaged
I think that sometimes it's answer.
It seems to say, I'll tax them if you can't get enough money, instead of trying to figure out how to cut budgets or cut spending get all of the waste out of the spending.
I don't know what y'all are paying in Dallas,
it seems like we pay the (( state )) ,
there's a,
the taxes set by, the state and the city can add theirs,
the county adds theirs,
we're paying almost eight percent sales tax, right now. Which seems to me nuts.
I came from California
when I left there, we paid six cents on the dollar,
that was one of the highest in the nation.
I think it's seven here.
Seven point something.
Ourselves is seven point seven five.
Whole state.
Yeah .
It drives me crazy.
I'm thinking, everybody is sitting here screaming about, we don't want a state income tax,
yet they allow the sales tax to go up and up and up and up
they don't do anything about it.
Where are you at?
What state?
I'm in Lubbock, Texas.
one of few that don't have the, state tax (( )) .
That's true.
I did pay state tax in California,
my goodness,
sales tax, is just getting outrageous to pay.
That's true.
You don't sound like you're from Dallas.
Where come from originally
I do.
I've lived the Dallas area here since I was like four.
it's, I don't know, an urban area, I guess
I don't know.
managed to escape the real Texan accent,
I thought maybe you had come from somewhere else and had some experience with taxes there.
I've just lived here,
I don't know,
I do,
I can think of all the biblical things about it, too.
did they say to,
I can't think of the scripture.
Render unto Caesar's what is Caesar's. *
That's right.
in the story where they had to pay the taxes, the disciples,
and, Jesus said the money in the fishes mouth or in the fisher, inside the fish.
I thought of those two things when holding for a long time.
were you really,
trying to find someone at home?
back then what they tried to do,
the (( )) would always try to stump Jesus, try to give him something that would contradict himself,
that's what they were trying to do with the tax situation.
of course, that's when he said well you render unto Caesar's what is Caesar's,
you render unto God what is God's.
of course, there,
I don't think they really cared about the answer,
they just wanted to try and catch him in something .
I believe in paying taxes
like everybody else, I try to take as many deductions as I can,
(( )) I don't want to pay more than I have to,
I get outraged when I feel like they go up for useless reasons,
I believe that they're necessary.
I really do,
deal with taxes much in what you do when you work
not really.
spends a lot of time with our income tax, though. year and last year.
I have been married for just a few years,
I've had to really switch around from the E Z form to the,
Schedule A
Right .
All the deductions and all that.
Did you notice that when they passed the new simplified tax act, it seemed like it made everything harder?
It really did.
saw, that, too.
I didn't notice anything simplified about it, except that they took away the deductions,
the interest and,
other things .
We're looking at buying a house,
that was one of the main pluses that we have about buying a house.
it will help tremendously.
We bought ours five years ago
the one thing,
it seems like you make those payments every month
at the end of the year you've paid all interest and no principles.
that will definitely help in taxes and what you will get back.
There's a thing I just,
I've been trying to learn as much as I can about it,
if you pay,
I know I get paid twice a month, every two weeks,
that's once a month.
I get twenty six paychecks,
That's right.
which would come out to be in thirteen months.
if you pay your rent or your house payment every two weeks,
Instead of once a month, you'll come out paying one month extra every year.
That's right.
take like seven or plus years off of your note.
That's right.
My parents, bought a home in San Diego about four or five years ago,
they did that.
They thought their payment was automatically taken out like every other Wednesday,
that's exactly right.
though the note is thirty years, she said it's going be paid off in twenty or twenty one years,
or something like that.
Just because of exactly what you said,
You're making one more months payment every year.
that's going on the principle,
it doesn't pay any interest,
usually it doesn't.
That's a good way to do it. *
when we bought this house, we looked at doing a fifteen year note, because it added more to the payment,
but not significant amounts,
it was a good payoff for being able to pay it off sooner.
That's what we're looking at, fifteen or maybe twenty.
We're not going to go longer than twenty.
we're taking our time.
We're going to try to make our decision by July.
that's good, though.
we just started two or three weeks ago.
we're not going to just kill ourselves
just two or three houses a week at the most.
that's good, though.
Is it kind of a buyers market down there?
that's good.
Credit union has nine percent interest.
That's pretty excellent.
I don't know,
we couldn't think of a better time to buy than now.
That's good.
anyway. I can't think of a whole lot more to say.
I can't either.
I appreciate the call, though.
Me, too.
I enjoyed talking to you.
same here.
My wife, she went to, the school out there in Lubbock.
In Lubbock?
She was there for two or three years before we got married.
I guess, before I even met her.
. Just a second.
Go ahead.
she was at school out here?
She went to school there.
what was her name?
Cathy Walker.
I didn't know any Walker's.
good luck in your house hunting.
Thanks a lot.
work at T I?
I do.
You do.
I'm in human resources.
That's interesting.
I work in the (( waiver )) .
Do you really,
I work with Elma.
I used to work,
did all of their (( capital )) and financial planning for about eight years.
I have been in Human Resources for the last two years
I work with those same people all those nine years,
I feel kind of part of the (( staff )) .
I'm, turning in a capital request right now,
You are.
That's funny that's where you're from.
What are trying to get? *
A machine that puts (( back grind )) tape on and off the (( waivers )) .
you work in (( back grind )) ?
sort of an acting process engineer.
Not officially,
that's pretty much what I do.
That's what you do,
do you (( )) ?
(( )) .
good deal.
What did you think of Sam?
I like him,
he's hard,
we needed that.
that's good.
He was very good for Lubbock when he came to,
it was the same kind of thing,
he had a lot of good results.
what he said here.
He's gotten us into a linear flow that we've never been in before.
That's been a real big plus.
He's broadened, the devices that we're making, too,
which has made us as lot more stable.
that's good.
Anyway, it was nice to talk to you.
you too,
They're are going to interrupt us any minute now,
I can tell.
I know they will,
besides my daughter wants me to put her to bed.
me, too.
have a good day.
You, too.
Bye bye.
why do you think it, sounds,
do you think we should adopt it?
I don't like metric system.
You don't?
I think the country too ingrained in the inches just the general, background,
the history of our country has been inches
I don't think there's a big advantage in going to the metric system.
going to disorient and confuse a lot of people for years and years
there are going to be people who die because of it because they don't understand, simple things from the amount of medicine they should take to how fast they can drive
and how far away something is
not in our national consciousness to do it.
We've always measured things in the English system
and, everything,
our land is in acres,
our people aren't going to understand what
an amount of something is.
agree with you.
I don't think we should either even though I know there are benefits to the metric system,
I don't think the benefits of the metric system outweigh disadvantages that would happen to the people in America
also the,
I don't know
it seems almost like it's a peer pressure thing is why we keep wanting to do it is so we'll look good to the other nations
I think that's an area that the other nations, especially Europe, look down on us like we're just backward wayward children who still use this backward system, who haven't really attained it yet.
I feel it's just pride of why they keep trying to push it on us.
it's like, hey, we're content with this .
it's probably not as accurate,
probably, intellectually doesn't,
it's not as sound intellectually, but, like you said come on.
I had six years of college
I don't know the metric system I don't care to learn it
I'm not some kind of an idiot,
I just,
it's easy to trans ,
we have a computer for just about everything now
if it's necessary to translate back and forth between them, it can be done
I'm a mechanical engineer
I've had to work when I was designing packages for people,
I had work both systems
back and forth
it was not hard
a CAT CAM system that can take any design you want
you can push a button
it'll convert every measurement on there
from one system to the other
There's a lot of
in seconds.
you're educated,
I'm educated,
my husband is,
a lot of people are flat not educated
if I have a hard time,
putting that into my life, can we put that off on the other eighty percent of the population that doesn't have any college
I don't know how much of the
a large percentage probably over half of the rest of the population
they don't have any college probably much at all
if we can't take it and use it easily, how can you put that on, elderly people and
it's just,
just people that maybe just aren't blessed with much sharpness and acuity,
even have had go to college or
to learn about,
I think it's still good they do cover the system.
I think it should still be taught in schools.
they do,
I know now because I,
even when I was in elementary school years ago
we learned what a centimeter was and a decimeter and the various,
basically the other alternate forms of measurements, things like that.
that's acceptable.
I think it failed, too,
like what you said hey this is ridiculous.
The thing Americans have so much stress on them right now.
Yeah .
if you look at the average family it's, like, man, they barely have time to stop and get gas, much less to try and figure out how much gas they're really getting and
Really .
do all this.
It's like, come on let's take the pressure,
You know you need twenty gallons, but you need how many liters .
it's just like another thing
the American family doesn't need any more pressure.
Just leave them alone,
let them measure their (( drinking )) water in cups
leave them alone .
just doesn't, (( )) it just doesn't make that much difference in the average life
the scientific community and places where it's needed
that's fine
the rest of the world, we are,
it's not,
we may not be the top,
I don't know if we're the top,
we're one of the top superpowers of the world.
It may be arrogant,
let them come to us .
That's kind of the way I feel about it.
We can convert,
if they don't like the way we do it just I think,
kind of like expecting everyone to suddenly speak German.
it is
it is another language,
instead of (( saying )) the world speak German we found out that we can translate .
that's what I think we ought to do with the metric system.
That's funny.
that's good.
I think we kept it at real good.
Is that all we need to say?
It's been nice talking to you.
You, too.
I think that was good.
That was the best one.
Usually I get distracted off the topic.
You know what I mean.
we'll end up, one man was telling me about his grandfather in Lithuania,
we were talking about income tax or something.
. All right.
I just,
good talking to you.
Anyway, I appreciate it.
Have a good day.
Bye bye.
All right.
like I told you before, (( )) .
you're talking about credit cards.
We put ours up.
I had a delightful evening one night cutting a bunch of those suckers up.
I wish I had.
you should try it.
it was done for me after a while.
business going.
this was back in the eighties.
I don't know if you remember the gold and silver prices and all that.
I had a coin shop,
everything was going great while gold and silver was up,
it started falling.
I started paying expenses and stuff on my credit cards,
things got worse and worse,
finally, boom .
You lost your business?
What a nightmare .
it was.
I ended up going into bank ,
it was one of those things
it'll get better next week,
Things will pick up.
there I was in old bankruptcy court.
you weren't charging gold and silver were you?
You can't do that, can you?
you can?
I was buying from other dealers,
they take payment any way they can get it.
that's a nightmare .
Course stuff that I was, on merchandise that I was buying on cards, getting the money back,
I was selling it.
I wasn't buying, just to hold onto it.
it was things like, rent and phone bills and advertising and all that other good stuff that ate them all up.
I remember before I got married,
when you graduate from college they'll send you all those
credit card applications
of course you fill them all out because you're honored.
I had stuff for Sanger Harris,
it got up like to couple of hundred dollars,
I thought, Well that's okay, cause all they wanted was ten dollars a month.
I wasn't thinking a thing about it.
That's the way they suck you in.
I was just stupid,
every time they had a sale, there I was.
such good bargains.
I don't know.
just today in the mail my guaranteed acceptance by, American Express.
we've been getting those.
I went back to school and got my Master's,
they started sending those things to me again.
as soon as you're a graduate student they get your name.
they did.
course, I've been purged from their records.
I used to have an American Express.
back when I had my business I got one.
goofed up bad bill,
I was using the American Express strictly for the travel expenses.
the bill would come in,
I'd pay it.
the very first bill, I paid it,
I got this nasty letter from them saying, You're overdue, pay.
I said, it just crossed in the mail.
I didn't do anything about it.
Two weeks later I get another letter, even nastier,
said, We're going to turn this over to our attorneys if you don't pay.
I looked at that,
I said, huh.
by this time my checks had come back from the bank.
I made a copy of the check that they had cashed
attached it to their letter, and sent them a nasty letter with the card cut in little bitty pieces, saying Thanks, but no thanks .
Turned out they weren't cheeky.
they were, I tell you.
They don't talk about they're charging that enormous fee every year.
what is it now?
It's up to fifty five on the gold card.
It's eighty five for the Optima.
fif ,
fif ,
What do you mean fifty five?
You mean fifty five dollars?
for the green card.
what's the interest?
that's the card, see.
interest is like eighteen or something.
of course on the green card you have to pay it when the bill comes in, so there isn't any.
on the Optima card it's,
let's see, right now it's running at about.
It's not too bad.
about sixteen and a half percent, which is pretty good, as far as credit cards go.
credit cards.
they're dangerous.
my parents don't hardly use them.
Mine don't either,
mine don't either.
my mom and a Visa card,
that's it.
I've got all my gas cards, because I don't want to carry money around.
I'll do that.
now do use gas cards.
Impact is kind of bad too, though.
Especially if you to record those little suckers.
Plastic is just too easy,
whole problem with it.
you're tempted if you've got cash, a little bit of cash, and you don't have enough for the purchase, right.
Of course, you got to charge it and keep your cash.
I got into all kinds of trouble doing that .
What are you saying?
my husband says I might buy it,
don't really usually consider that an option.
Maybe that's how we got in trouble.
been out of the credit game for some years now, I've gotten used to either paying in cash or not getting it. *
it's hard, isn't it?
it is,
I'm kind of, grateful for the experience because it's taught me a lot of restraint.
it makes you feel good when you whip out the cash instead of your plastic.
I just went out and got a new V C R yesterday with cash.
With cash?
Do you work with T I?
I wish I did.
you could have got a discount, couldn't you?
I could use a discount.
I have to wait for things to go on sale .
there's always a sale.
especially on electronic goods
especially now.
What is that thing I saw,
World or something.
Circuit City.
Circuit City.
Have you been in there?
not, their prices aren't that terrific.
used to be,
to pay for all that national advertising now.
it's national?
I think I've seen two around Dallas.
all over the country now.
(( what else )) ,
used to be good.
I remember when they first opened up.
They did have good bargains.
I don't know if you have a place there called,
you probably have something similar.
We call it Service Merchandise.
in Garland.
You got Service Merchandise.
it used to be Service Merchandise was the place to go.
Circuit City came along
that was the place to go to get your T V s and washer and dryers and refrigerators and all that.
after the years went by, they just sort of kept creeping up on price,
actually Service Merchandise is cheaper than them now.
So much for Circuit City.
what else can we talk about?
Who do you work for?
I don't,
I'm a graduate student.
I'm a professional student.
Sounds wonderful.
It is.
We were talking about that just today.
It's great.
We could be just lifelong students.
It is great.
I love it.
Where are you going to school?
N C State.
What's that?
North Carolina State.
you're on Spring Break?
Not yet.
start until, next week.
where are you?
Where am I?
What do you mean, where?
in Raleigh.
the burgeoning metropolis of Raleigh.
What a dead place .
Is it? .
I've got a nice little business at home,
I sit around and tinker with that most of the time.
what are you getting your degree in?
human factors.
what do you do with it?
Not a thing .
what is it?
really looking at systems and design systems and seeing how people interact with them.
So it's sociology.
more psychology and engineering.
master's is in industrial engineering.
you're working on your doctorate?
P H D in human factors.
sound wonderful, won't it?
Get you a little (( )) plaque.
I B M,
a lot of people use human factors,
I B M is what I'm looking at right now.
they laying off several thousand people?
They might be,
the human factors level .
I heard it on the news today,
I could swear it was I B M.
as a matter of fact, the I B M which is a little suburb of Raleigh, hired one more human factors person.
Doggone it,
if they'd just waited a little bit longer it could have been
me. *
How much longer do you have?
I'm dissertation this summer. *
get that done this summer?
I'm going to start this summer.
I probably won't finish it until the end of the year
trying to get a, intern position with I B M right now so that I can find an area to do my dissertation in.
It's hard finding an area to do a dissertation in this field.
There has been so much work done already?
that limited application in some respects.
in the area that we're in here, there's a lot of places that use human factors people.
as a matter of fact this past weekend, since we had a long weekend, I, took on a painting project in my bathroom
I had wallpaper up,
I had to completely strip the wallpaper off and then spackle holes and then paint that
it took me all weekend
the wallpaper, getting it off, I had to wet the walls down
that had to dry.
the spackling had to dry a day
the painting took another day.
You didn't try
You just,
just painted.
Did you use a textured paint
Actually, the wall behind the paper was smooth
I just used semigloss.
did you get good results?
not really.
I need to,
looks so,
bad you can see where those spackling marks were.
I need to, either paper back over it or do something .
cover it?
It covered the spots pretty good
it just didn't look as smooth as I wanted it to.
we did a,
we moved, last August
we're getting a house,
my house had this dark wood paneling at the end of the den
we decided,
we went to, (( I've forgotten )) , one of the paint stores
they just said, you can get by,
I forgotten what it was you put down, and then you can just paint right over the dark.
more or less.
After about, half dozen coats it looks reasonable
it kept,
it was, just a real dark, wood grain type paneling
it was smooth
this stuff on
it supposedly textured it or did something to it
because of the dark behind it, it was really hard to cover
Was it like a primer?
It was something like that, although, when we got through I wished we hadn't done it
trying to make the house look nice to sell it
we were painting it and trying to it,
really was,
the advice they give you is,
the job was considerably tougher than we thought.
particularly when you try to,
I was talking to somebody else had a lot of wood panelling
they had gotten somebody to come in with an estimate
it seemed like a good sized den with a lot panelling
the people quoted thirty thousand dollars to paint it or something.
my goodness,
that's an awful lot.
tried getting outside estimates to see what it costs to have something painted?
Not inside.
when we bought the house that we live in right now we had a company that came out and painted it.
That was one of the requirements from, F H A
that the house be painted before we bought it
it was fairly reasonable.
We have a brick house
all the trim
around the house was,
if I remember right, it was like five hundred dollars.
that's quite reasonable.
(( )) .
that wasn't too bad.
problem i ,
tried matching paint lately?
I haven't.
My wife,
built a shed over the (( long way )) ,
actually, it took,
this is not on the topic
I did finish it.
my wife went to the, Home Depot, I think it was, took copy, took a piece of brick
she wanted to paint the shed
a wooden shed,
she took it
they've got this machine that matches the color of paint.
they got,
in fact she put some right ba ,
she got,
they mixed, a gallon of it
it's just remarkable how close it will match the paint,
it does it, electronically
they did do a good job?
it's electronic.
you put your sample under this thing
it looks at it determines the,
really remarkable.
the problem they had
they wanted some gray trim.
occur to them they could have taken a sample
I forgotten, *
this is Sherwin Williams Paint or something
anyway. remarkable.
That's one of the problems though when you start painting to try to get the,
to look like this
you want that to look like that
of course, if it's all white you're all right
when you start getting into colors,
have you had problems getting colors to match?
As a matter of fact, what we've got ours painted now is kind of a light creamy color and blue
the blue, even it doesn't match,
it's the very same type of paint and everything,
what's your,
what's the solution then?
I have no idea.
I repainted the whole thing.
my .
at least you'll get very good at it, right?
You could go back paint,
the whole thing over
an interesting topic that they would bring up painting
seems like everybody has to go in and do,
I'll just do a little bit here and (( a little there )) .
Although, the,
we almost one day,
we painted the house to,
the whole inside
it had all this dark trim.
We thought,
we did the one wall but the other trim,
I'm trying to think,
we left most of it because it gets to be,
they don't do that in the newer houses now
we don't,
the (( mold )) ,
(( )) .
everything is (( white )) .
In a new house everything is white.
That's what we're trying to get ours to look like.
good luck .
We wound up selling the house.
Actually, don't know whether it made,
actually it does,
it's interesting that the white, makes the rooms look bigger.
One of the,
in our down stairs in our dining room it has molding, like picture frames, I don't know what you call that
that actually, that are along the walls, up a couple of feet.
my wife painted dark blue.
I see.
it makes the room look remarkably smaller.
She painted the insides dark blue and then the trim,
The trim,
(( what color )) ?
is still white.
the molding
she did that all the way around the room which makes it look very attractive,
it makes the room look smaller which is,
which is,
it explains have everything white
you wouldn't think that I,
maybe that understands colors would know all of that stuff
what about the lighting?
Did it make a big difference?
not particularly
the house has so many windows
it has
the living room has four, good size windows
of course, at night
with the,
a soccer field
that's, about a hundred yards from our house
the lights shine right at our house.
It's kind of,
we didn't know that when we bought the house
you get some,
the color doesn't really matter because you have that light.
We have a lot of light,
it, it's just, I think it's just the dark blue to about three feet
and then above that we left it white
Anyway, it didn't,
(( I see )) .
it didn't change
interesting thing is that paint we wound up having to go back and scrape some of that away
it didn't,
it kind of bled under the masking tape which, I guess, is probably the topic we're
we're really on to the masking is,
you have to do that very, very carefully.
it takes a long time,
That's right.
You can work yourself to death.
I'm sorry to hear your color didn't come out so good over the weekend.
no kidding.
It's kind of frustrating.
It is.
A lot of work,
a lot of work.
I've got to go to a meeting.
It's been good talking to you.
Nice talking to you.
Good bye.
Bye .
I wondered if I was going to get to talk to a male or a female on this (( type )) .
Have you been talking to males?
probably more interesting if it had been a male and a female .
I was afraid we might get into an argument.
I guess there have been certainly a lot of changes in the last couple of generations,
for, the roles of women
I guess the most significant probably is that so many are working now,
And trying to juggle job and home and family and all sorts of other possibilities,
they may be going to school, or may have elderly parents, or all sorts of other things.
seems too me like though that women's roles are changing faster than the men and therefore, the women are spreading themselves thinner,
I think so.
than before.
I think it's extremely difficult to keep up with all that we have to these days.
Sometimes, I think I am going crazy trying to do it
Do you work outside the home?
Do you have children?
They are getting older now,
they are not quite as much of a responsibility
they are still there,
they still take time,
still provide most of the things that go on around the house.
for a while I was going to school too,
was tough.
think that while it's a good change for I think women to be able to fulfill their potential in whatever they feel,
their expertise may be.
I think sometimes other things suffer and tha ,
I think it's hard to find a balance there.
in some ways I think we are expected to do it all.
You're almost looked down upon if you don't try to do all of these things
that's where the problem is really.
I have little children, four and one,
I decided that it was very important to me to stay home.
when I happen to, you know be,
I'm very active with, with children my age
most of us do tend to stay home,
when I run into people that, just have recently had babies or have very young children and are working full time, there's almost a, friction between us.
not people that are, necessarily good friends,
Even though that has happened too,
it's almost as though it puts you on different sides of a fence.
You know w ,
if you decide to go back to work then you feel like you are always having to defend yourself.
if you don't then, sometimes you feel like you're looked down upon by people that go back to work and so you're just wasting your time ,
at home.
it's a tough one.
I've done some of both.
was at home for a couple of different periods of time.
I think the longest was less than a year,
still at least I was able spend, those first months with them.
I mostly went back to work because I was tired of doing without things.
the money was the issue.
even now, like to not have to work in some ways.
kind of pull and tug,
on the other hand, I can't imagine just being at home, although I have a lot of interests and a lot of things I would like to pursue.
still, sort of a feeling of accomplishment with having, a job and all that goes with that.
definitely true.
In fact, work out of my home.
I'm an accountant,
I do taxes and bookkeeping
it was,
it's a way for me to stay home.
I still, unfortunately have to be very disciplined in doing my work at five in the morning and ten o'clock at night,
worked out my family,
to have my cake and eat it too, kind of thing.
that's a good deal.
Where do you think this is going in the future,
do you think things are going to change,
are we going to keep having to try to juggle all of this?
hope that they will change
I just,
I know it's going to be a slow change.
feel as though a lot of people are going back to just having a one wage earner.
I'm just thinking of my circle of people that I know.
I know quite a few people who have decided to not have both, couples, both, of the parents work.
yet, we ,
I hope to see employer based, helping out.
child, care centers at the place of employment things like that, that will help out.
What do you think,
do you think we are,
I don't,
setting a trend?
see, some people wanting to stay home more and take care of the children.
even those who may not do it seem to be spending more time with their kids and really trying harder at making all of family things work.
I don't know if they're going to ever give up their careers,
It's sort of like they went to school and they worked so hard to get where they are,
I don't know if they want to completely give that up.
it's a very personal thing.
it would be nice if there could be an in between, a middle ground somewhere.
I think it's hard though when you talk families raising children
have a hard time understanding a middle ground.
I think need security
yet they,
I don't know,
from speaking from my children, aren't real flexible when it comes to things like that.
want to know things are going to be a certain way.
I think like a routine of sorts.
we will see.
hoping to see more female leadership in our society.
like the fact that, gradually you're beginning to see women in public office and executive positions,
it's still a long way from being what it ought to be.
numbers are still very skewed to say the least.
I enjoyed talking to you.
you too Ellen.
All right,
good bye.
Bye bye.
what do you usually wear to work? .
I am basically retired now.
I was a member,
I was in education and in administration,
basically I wore dresses. *
And, heels,
I that got, accustomed to wearing pants suits and pants to work.
that was just me.
I know many people are in the classroom and what have you wearing pants.
I guess I was just old enough not to, be very comfortable in it.
How about you?
I work at T I
they don't really have, dress code, so to speak there.
It's pretty lax about,
can pretty much wear whatever you want to,
I wear anything from jeans, when I'm feeling really casual to, suits and dresses when I'm meeting with a customer
teach training classes, *
when I'm teaching a class, obviously I wear a suit or dress, *
definitely fluctuates mainly with what I'm going to be doing that day and kind of what my mood is
when it's raining,
I'm more likely to wear jeans
when it's really cold I'm more likely to wear jeans or pants or sweaters, or that type of thing.
it just really depends on the weather and my mood
obviously when I'm doing anything that I'm in front of people, making presentations, teaching, whatever.
I'm going to dress up more .
I think that does make a difference,
when you do have to be in front of people,
I think tendency there is to wear dresses and suits more classical style of clothing.
What about the mini skirt?
There are a few people every now and then that wear those to work.
There pretty strict about that, though.
I've never worn,
I just wouldn't,
even to,
jeans aren't exactly professional
for some reason a mini skirt is, to me a little more unprofessional to wear to work than jeans
of the sexist views and everything
you just feel like too much le ,
I don't know,
I wouldn't want to wear a mini skirt to work.
We ,
I have seen a few people do it though,
weren't overly shor ,
they weren't overly revealing.
They were pretty much in good taste,
for me want to do that.
there are mini skirts and there are mini skirts.
There are some that are really short
there are some that may be will come like four inches or five inches above the knee.
that's what I've seen.
again it depends upon the size, the shape of the person,
as well as the shape of the person's legs.
I also,
even though I retired from education, do modeling
I teach at a modeling agency here.
when we are doing wardrobing and we have, hour classes in wardrobe, we do discuss a great deal, the mini skirt and the types of clothes to wear on the job.
even though I may have them from sixth grade on up through, grandmothers,
in my class.
I always try to emphasize the, clothes that you wear should not necessarily be the greatest fad,
maybe are not the clothes that are the most, appealing to you, or the most, complimentary to you.
the mini skirt many times will evoke comments you don't really want.
Right .
you're in the situation where you're very unhappy.
I feel like too, on the job, when, there's men around and some of the managers are men, don't want them looking at your legs necessarily.
That's right.
to me I just wouldn't feel comfortable in that at work,
I have to, agree with that, even when they was very, very popular in the early sixties,
again maybe because I was at the school, there were still many teachers who wore mini skirts,
we had no regulation against it
a lot of the kids did of course,
it could be very embarrassing for the men teachers.
Right .
they were not that careful in how they handled themselves in those mini skirts.
I think, of course, now I go the other extreme, I do not like to see, in the corporate areas, all the women dressed like men,
with the suits and, white shirts and ties and what have you so that they all look exactly the same.
I don't like that,
I don't,
I think there should be individuality in dressing.
Even with the very tailored look of a suit, sometimes I like to have something that's feminine.
you don't want to over do it but, just a little, a touch of it just to say, yes, I am a woman,
I can be professional too.
I don't think that you have to be manish and extremely tailored look professional.
I think that make of that what you wish
you can go the opposite direction and, over do all the frills and laces and flounces and what have you, which don't belong work place,
you can have a classical look without adornment and what have you and still be very feminine.
that was one thing I always fought against.
I started out as a physical education teacher.
I was always fighting against the idea of looking tailored or manish,
people would never, ever guess that I was Phys Ed
that pleased me,
then I, of course, just continued what I considered the best style of clothing for me at work
I find at home here now, will wear blue jeans or I'll wear shorts and what have you, and be very comfortable
when I go out somewhere, then, unless I have a pair of dress slacks, I don't usually wear a lot of blue jeans.
I have difficulty getting them to fit me comfortably any how.
huh .
I just feel that, each person has to dress to their own liking and for their own comfort.
there are certain norms that companies should be able to, put out as guidelines for their employees.
that's like about T I is that they aren't overly strict about what you wear
come up to you and say now remember, tomorrow you have a meeting so you'd better wear a suit.
leave it up to you and your judgment to,
to use good judgment and dress tastefully and dress for whatever occasion you may have.
The only real restrictions they have are, no halter tops and no shorts, even the long walking short of the squirts, split skirts,
anything could be considered shorts they don't allow.
That's good.
they don't allow, shirts or t shirts that might have vulgar, or, anything like that on it,
other than that, it's lax
I think that's good because it does allow people to be individual
it allows you to kind of dress the way you feel that day.
if you want to be comfortable and casual you can,
sometimes I think you may be more productive if you're comfortable with what your wearing and can feel more relaxed. *
Whereas, sometimes when your in the suit and feel, kind of almost stiff and get as comfortable to sit down *
when I'm writing training material, I prefer to be more comfortable unless I know I have to meet with a customer later during the day.
good that they're like that.
I do know there's a lot of companies that are very strict about what the employees wear
they must wear blue or gray or black and a white shirt and,
no variation,
quite agree with that.
well, I don't either.
Fortunately I don't have to work in those companies .
did have a group come over from one of the banks, over the children's hospital where I was volunteering
they were doing a presentation
every one of the young execs coming up were dressed exactly a like, men and women.
They all had on the gray jackets and the gray trousers and the white blouses and the same color tie.
you could hardly tell the women from the men except for the lengths of the pants. *
one was a skirt and one was a pant. *
I think that's sad because that doesn't allow for any individuality.
That stifle creativity.
I agree.
I guess we've talked probably long enough.
I guess so,
it's been nice talking with you.
Nice talking to you too,
I enjoyed it.
bye, bye.
Bye, bye.
All right.
What have you seen?
The latest movie I've seen that I thought was fantastic was DANCES WITH WOLVES.
I knew you were going to say that.
to go see that.
just finally ended up going to see it,
one day my husband had the kids
I just went because never get to go see it together because it's so long.
By the time we had a babysitter for that long.
I finally just went to see it.
I just thought it was fantastic.
I watched, Costner on the Academy Awards.
I was really happy that he got,
I was hoping he was going to get Best Actor.
he did pretty good on that one.
That was quite a,
the buffalo scene in that thing
was so real.
It's like,
it just
blew me away.
There're several of them that are out right now that I want to see.
DANCES. SILENCE OF THE LAMBS.
afraid to go see that one.
That one looks so scary just,
from the previews.
I thought gosh
I'd probably have nightmares for the next six months .
It's supposed to
That's what people said,
be good though.
I know some friends who went to see it.
They said it was really riveting.
that's what they said about THE EXORCIST,
it's terrible.
You'll have nightmares,
I watched last weekend.
Me and my roommate.
laughed about it .
you're not a thirteen year old.
I don't know.
I saw it when I was a kid
I thought, man .
I'll tell,
guess it was because I'd read the book before I saw the movie.
the book, to me, was far more frightening than the movie was.
He's a very good writer
he had a way of putting you in that scene,
It was,
of course, living alone at the time
it was late at night and scary .
You start hearing noises
Call the crisis line.
I bet.
there's rats in the attic,
let's see.
There was a couple of others that are out,
I can't remember,
I saw one I thought was crummy.
With that new, Michael J Fox movie, THE HARD WAY.
Where he plays actor that's, th ,
didn't, I didn't even like the previews on that.
I know.
It was,
I ended up at the theater
there anything else on I wanted to see,
I'll try that.
it wasn't worth anything.
I didn't care
for that at all.
don't much care for Michael J Fox anyway.
the last two I saw him in, one of those BACK TO THE FUTURE, PART THREE deals
that was crummy also.
didn't think that was any good
I saw the original BACK TO THE FUTURE
I hardly ever go see a sequel.
the only I've ever seen a sequel was TWO THOUSAND AND ONE.
TWO THOUSAND AND TEN was far better.
TWO THOUSAND AND ONE was a good movie if you had read the book.
I hadn't read it
I couldn't figure what was going on half the time,
nobody could figure it out.
book was so much,
there's just things,
all you can do is put it in words.
You can't put it in pictures.
a lot of that stuff that was going on in the film, you what is this?
what's the significance of the apes, .
I should probably go back and read the book now that I just saw the movie again not too long ago.
the book is really good.
keep a little library of books that I just like to read over and over again
that's one of them.
so well written.
I have one I bet you haven't seen if you don't have kids. OTIS AND MILO.
you're right.
I haven't .
the most precious movie.
It has, to see it on the big screen because it's just the most gorgeous nature scenes you've ever seen in your life.
it's all this,
it's the story of this little cat and dog
it's not cutesy.
so realistic. Everything they do.
You wonder how in the world they ever got them to do some of these things.
it was,
a real dog and cat?
A real dog and
all the other animals.
They initially start out in the barnyard kind of setting where they're raised.
the cat gets, on this treacherous journey.
He climbs into a box and ends up floating down this river
he winds up all over creation.
I don't know where in the world it is.
Somewhere in China somewhere I think that it was filmed.
it's just really an incredible thing.
sort of like the incredible journey.
It was pretty wild
(( )) . Of course, the only sound is Dudley Moore narrates it.
there's else to keep it going.
it really keeps
keeps me going.
seen it twice now .
sounds a lot like a Walt Disney film.
Sounds a lot a like a Walt Disney film.
It was like the best of the Walt Disney ones.
Walt Disney's kind of gotten worse in my opinion over the past few years.
Not anymore.
I mean, I was raised on Walt Disney films.
OLD YELLER. BIG RED.
All those old good ones that you, wish they had on
more now,
When I was a little kid, I saw the INCREDIBLE JOURNEY on Christmas Eve
it was so good that I had forgotten
that it was Christmas Eve.
That's pretty good.
that's something for a kid.
that was something for greedy old me at Christmas time, I'll tell you.
Let's see.
What are some other ones I've seen lately.
I'm trying to remember.
I can't.
I just saw one on the video.
have you seen THE GODS MUST BE CRAZY, PART TWO?
No .
That is a riot.
Is it?
The first one was really good.
the second one ,
is really good too.
I was really surprised.
I didn't much care for the first one.
Maybe that's,
I thought it was funny.
that's my sense of humor .
have to go get that one I guess.
It's hard to find movies that aren't terrible violent or terribly bunch of sex going on anymore.
middle America or something.
I just go to be entertained
It's, it's, *
not really interested in Schwarzenegger stuff.
I just.
Yeah. *
I get so tired of, these, sequels.
Number nine, number ten, number
FREDDY'S REVENGE PART TWENTY FIVE or whatever.
I've never,
FREDDY EATS A NUCLEAR WARHEAD,
I'm so sick and tired of that.
I just can't believe it.
It's like ROCKY films.
I've never seen any of those.
I haven't seen a one.
I can't stand Stallone.
I can't either.
He seems so macho I just .
was afraid that RAMBO was going to do the same thing that ROCKY was going to do,
Go into fourteen hundred episodes.
Now watch T V.
If I ever get the hankering to see something, I've got, I don't know, maybe about thirty or forty movies
I just,
When they're so cheap too at the video stores that you can.
I don't even rent them.
You don't?
figure if I find a movie I like, I'll buy it.
Cause I just watch them over and over again.
That's like,
my husband does that.
He can watch
them over and over.
there's very few I would want to see that many times.
once he has one he likes, he likes to watch it over and over.
very favorite one that the top of the tick for me is, EXCALIBUR.
That was a good one.
I haven't seen that one in a long time.
loved that film.
it's just so well done.
I lived over in England for four years,
That was the first place I ever saw it.
it was just, gosh,
it was so good.
filmed in Ireland.
they got pretty scenery in Ireland.
I bet .
it's nice.
been down to the south of England where supposedly King Arthur's castle was.
that really has a lot of meaning for you to see that.
unimpressive to look at.
the whole thing was about the size of medium house .
It wasn't,
really .
when I was in England years ago.
I went Shakespeare's and, Stratford On Avon
and all that
it was like you couldn't stand up inside of it
it was so
The ceilings
were so short.
. Yeah.
There's some nice stuff over there to see.
spent four years traveling around and didn't see, hardly anything.
I just,
I need,
to go over there and stay about twenty years so I can just travel.
Go around all the places.
Stonehenge, of course,
makes the obligatory trip to Stonehenge.
big deal.
Here's some rocks sitting out in the middle of a field.
Okay .
It's boring.
Did you see any movies over there ?
I remember I went to see DON QUIXOTE over there when it came out.
It came out right around the time, with Sophia Loren
that was a riot to see that.
You know something,
don't think I went to the movies one time.
Cause when you're touristing, you probably don't want to take the time to go see a movie.
where I lived. it was a little town called Newmarket.
About seventy miles north of London.
boy .
there was another town called Barry Saint Edmunds about twenty miles away from us.
they had a little, theater company there
we use to out to that about once a week.
A really nice place.
amateurs but really quite good.
that was interesting.
That sounds great.
go to London quite a lot and see shows down there.
other than that I just didn't have time to go to the movies,
Never sho , anything that I ever wanted,
I rented a lot of videos .
the closest movie theater was Barry Saint Edmunds
who wants
who wants to drive twenty miles to go to the movies .
Probably some of them did .
people did.
it would have to be a good show.
It's hard to know what the good movies are anymore.
sometimes the reviews you just can't go by.
us ,
they have all these neat phrases.
Like critically acclaimed.
That's what they when the thing hasn't won any award. *
I see .
They can't,
It's kind of like waterfront property or something
two miles away from water .
from Love Canal .
Water view .
Waterfront property here at Love Canal,
critically acclaimed.
good grief.
Give me a break.
That's wh ,
there's a lot of reasons why I don't go to movies.
primarily, probably upset you.
people who bring kids irritates the heck out of me .
we're energized.
the guy called me,
when she called me, the computer called me, I thought that they were reading my mind.
I'm in the middle of, going out for bids to have my house painted.
painting is not hard to do,
as long as it's the point of where it to be scraped and peeling,
our house is not
it's starting to bleed through and burn through because the paint's real cheap
it's just a hassle to go through it
I'm looking for the easy way out.
I know.
Di ,
is easy to find to do this for you?
It's easier to find painters,
aware of messy they can get and are they going to put on two coats, and are they,
Ri ,
are you talking,
going to caulk,
outside or inside?
interior's not so bad because it's more fun,
it's more, c ,
outside you have high peeks,
and those kind of things,
it can be a real issue.
when we've painted,
right now our house doesn't have to have the same kind of exterior painting there,
it's more trim because it has some of the old asbestos shingles,
on the back and there's some sort of stone or something in the front
there isn't as much wood that has to be painted.
the problem is that it.
preparing is a real problem,
you've got to prepare it well
else it will flake.
Here they,
some of the home builders are,
they don't put brick on the side of your house just to save money
they put up, a quarter inch Masonite, basically,
they painted it kind of like a (( spun )) (( of a sorts ))
it's real cheap.
I've had thirteen hundred dollar bid and as low as five hundred and forty dollars
just a matter of,
that's quite a range.
there one guy brags about his piece of equipment he's using and the drop cloths and all that kind crap
I'm so much worried about that as what,
I don't want it all over the brick and windows
which might be a bigger problem than it would be,
absolutely .
y'all, you haven't had jobs painted in your house recently (( )) .
we done a little painting ourselves,
we painted the bedroom, well within the last couple of months,
That's fun.
some more that need to be done,
problem that owned this house almost five years now,
when we bought it it had been vacant for a while because the family will retired, (( ))
the daughter was a real estate agent
she was selling it
it's been lived in briefly by her before she bought her town house.
she told us that the house had been, professionally painted recently.
it looked pretty good, interior walls all basically white,
they obviously had been done without to much, wear afterward.
The only problem was when we started having the movers move the furniture in we identified various rooms by pieces of masking tape on door frames,
when we took the masking tape off half the painted came with it.
that's not very,
Big long strips.
what had happened is that professional painters had not prepared the surface properly.
some of still has to be redone.
they just painted over varnished wood.
actually it had been a repaint job.
they had not,
either they had painted with the wrong kind of paint over top
they hadn't really roughed it up or whatever
it was woodwork
it looked as if it had been painted,
correctly with, an enamel or something,
it had not,
either that or it had not been prepared underneath
it was greasy or something,
it comes off in strips, not even little bit.
we still have some of that trim work to do because we put it off all this time,
we know what a job it's going to be
you almost have to strip the whole thing,
in order to do it again.
I wish you good luck.
Okay .
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Bye bye.
how do you feel about our policy in Latin America? .
I'm all in favor of it,
yeah .
think we've been doing a pretty good job, taking advantage the financial dependence that most of the countries have on us,
we could direct the government even more than we have been.
I don't think we've been doing too bad.
Do you think,
we should direct the government? .
I think can, bring so much money to a country.
I think that if it wasn't for the United States Government matching that drug, cartels or whatever would control most the Central and Latin America.
Yeah .
Just that, money is power,
I have a friend
his descendants are from, Nicaragua and, very,
it's like his mother, his,
mother came over
I just (( get sorry )) feelings for people that their family came from there and how they feel about, our intervention and their government and stuff like that,
was all for it because it's just like you say,
there's so many people there get the kind of control that's bad,
that their governments can become so corrupt
it's like, I use to feel like,
should work their way,
they be able to work their self out of it
why intervene in another country's, problems and things like that.
should we be the ones that have to do it and things like that
I think just a lot of times if we don't it, then that influence will affect our country too for one.
for two, that it does help.
I think the people in those country do want our help. The people that are under conditions that are, not favorable to rights.
I wish we didn't have to.
I'd rather,
even if a country chooses a government that's not, exactly the kind of government that we have, as in complete opposition to it, at least it's their choice, it's one makes since, so to speak,
it is a government that stays in power, that can stay in power,
it seems like most of them don't ,
sometimes America doing that too
fall out of, agreements with certain leaders
amazingly enough the country starts turning against our leader, .
you think C I A influence and our money over there.
America starts talking then about removing bases whatnot and,
stuff like that,
and people.
government aids and stuff.
I think that has a lot of things to did with,
then say toppling of those kinds of governments,
that was,
really wondering whether that's going it settle down or not,
on one hand you have, that Soviet Government, of course, mistreating a lot of the, Slovak countries and then,
on the other hand, you have,
were feeding us,
I don't know really what's going to happen.
intervening in that,
do you think that we are to the degree that we are causing .
I think we're getting quite a,
put it this way, I think,
I think the people are,
revolting themselves,
I agree with that.
it to happen.
agree the communication communication has,
become so much more widespread and, worldwide that people are realizing hey, we don't have it so good and let's stand up
this is ridiculous
we're living, with these kind of conditions in a world that's advancing as fast as it is
I think people are just saying, no way, we don't want anywhere of this.
I think,
Central America has always been one of those places where people are more passive,
Yeah .
where it's always the minority that trying to make the country better.
I don't mean to,
I guess I do in a way,
sometimes I think a religion has a lot to do with that.
I think because of those where such Catholic influence.
I think the Catholic religion itself such a dominant factor, as far as keeping the people down,
so to speak,
I thought,
it was the other way around.
They were always having to meet in the catacombs and all this,
all the persecution that they're sort of use to it, it's been,
sort of
I don't agree with that because the Catholic religion, as far as through the ages has been the rule, so to speak.
they are the ones a lot of the rules
they are the ones that do keep the people down,
when you a religion that most of the people go to church and they don't understand when anything is being said expected to bow down to it, I think that keeps people in sort of line,
I don't quite understand that.
Do they even understand what's being said?
it use to be Latin.
I'm just saying,
the old church.
the old church.
Which it's not that way now
I think that it's just Latin countries are slower in coming around.
they actually understood,
it is in America where it was hard
. Latin,
is very, very, very close to Spanish.
they still didn't understand it though, I don't think,
descend from that.
I don't understand Latin
I'm of Spanish descent.
just think that has something to do with why Latinos tend to be,
they tend to be more,
not stand up for their rights as much.
They're not really sure of what they are. I don't think.
I never really thought of,
it that way.
can you contrast the Europeans and their vocalism on their rights say the people in Latin America.
not as vocal
why do they not, stand up, so to speak, for their rights?
I don't know,
could be the,
the economic still.
the poverty level is certainly, much worse in the Latin American countries.
you can say that about Africa too.
I think it has something to do with the poverty level because Africa is certainly not a Catholic, country,
they have the same problem where,
I don't,
where kings and such,
agree with that.
I don't agree,
I think that they are pretty vocal about it Africa.
I think they've made a lot more chances.
their very vocal.
in South Africa,
yeah .
In South Africa I think they are,
what's the difference?
Idi Amin was, in power for so long.
what makes the difference between, rest of Africa? *
racial, I think ,
like you say, maybe communication of knowing that, hey, up in other English colonies, or previous English colonies, everything is equal and yet down there it's not,
Yeah. *
I think communication does have a lot to do with it, in education,
I don't know about education
the black community is still not very educated down there.
I think it is communication,
it's just oopsy.
I think it maybe has education
you look at the, European countries,
I think they tend to be more educated, much more,
educated Africa or the Latin American countries.
that's true.
You know that,
I don't know whether,
actually always wondered the education system works in the Russian countries,
the Republics,
I know that Russia, comparably educated than we are,
in our country.
That's good, in a way .
something we compete with.
Yeah .
I've been sort of disappointed how that say literacy rate has gone down,
that's sort of upsetting,
to think that we're richer and yet everybody is intellectually poorer .
In our country?
In our country,
that is really upsetting
considering it's free,
good education is really still free.
that's just it though, good education.
Is it good education?
It may be free but is it good education
that's just it
are we willing to pay for it,
a lot of people bitch and moan about the taxes and all
are they willing to,
pay for, quality education,
huh. *
get very frightened when they see the Japanese moving in and the Russians moving in certain areas of technology, that we use to dominate
it's like they're educating their people to higher degrees than we do.
you're going to have to expect it.
what you,
are you willing to compromise a little some, take some of that money out of your pocket and pay for good quality education.
I don't know.
who is your favorite football team?
I bet you can't guess .
I would say the Saints (( after )) ,
You got it.
(( since )) ,
I want to tell you something.
What's that?
They're going to go somewhere pretty shortly.
I think they are because they're getting better every year.
got a lot,
call them the New Orleans Ain'ts any more.
I don't think so.
We went to the playoffs.
Yeah .
Buffalo Bills fan.
from a,
now I like them, too.
from a long time ago.
see the Bills doing so well now
They are.
They are doing a whole bunch better.
their quarterback?
What's that?
Who's their quarterback?
Jim Kelly.
I like to watch them, too.
They're the,
I like to watch almost all the football
of course, I watch every Saints game that I can watch.
do good because it seems like they're finally all coming together.
If they would just quit blowing it.
N F L draft really seems to be doing its job
got teams Buffalo who a powerhouse, ten years ago.
Now, they've been able to get some good players and come around
th ,
New Orleans the same story
a few years ago Denver was a powerhouse
weren't getting the draft picks
now the, other team,
it seems to be, moving around and, New Orleans' benefit,
you see how,
look at the Cowboys now .
hurting. *
Really bad.
they got so much bad publicity, too.
I think that hurt a lot of,
W ,
people even wanting to play on their team.
firing Tom Landry and hiring Jimmy Johnson
kind of,
doesn't give you much respect for their team at all.
where the owner would fire Tom Landry, is one of the greatest coaches of all time.
just because they a couple of bad seasons.
you can't even attribute those bad seasons to bad coaching.
all the problems,
if you think about those years that we had the losing season, of how bad,
his players were constantly getting kicked off the team because of drugs, because of,
messing with young children
it was just one thing it seemed like right after the other,
he alway ,
with them.
had a lot of trouble with injuries, too.
he'd, never seem to be able to keep his guys healthy.
even like, what is it, Eric Dickerson left,
the team,
tha ,
you're right.
people were jumping ship right and left.
I don't know,
that sounds to me more like the front office problem than coaching problem,
then the team was sold.
that Jimmy Johnson came in, too, though,
he just,
when he bought the team and all it just seemed like he just decided, this is the way it's going to be
it was bad.
it really was.
To me it was like it's going to take them quite a while to rebuild
anything that Tom Landry wanted or had, he was going to change it.
I mean it's,
the way I felt about it.
I tell you what,
if New Orleans ever gets a quarterback
isn't nobody going to beat us .
There ain't nobody going to beat us then.
look how good we did without a quarterback this year .
I know.
Who was the quarterback?
I can't even think of who the New Orleans quarterback,
had quite a few quarterbacks if you think about it.
Fourcade was for a while.
I can't remember that guy's name, the one that held out for the money
he was across the river .
name now,
really we didn't have a quarterback.
was the whole problem.
We had one guy that couldn't throw
we had one guy that couldn't run.
just bedlam.
We really didn't have a quarterback.
It was, defense won all the games.
able to draft anybody this year?
I don't know
they gave away a lot of their drafts.
For different people for,
other places.
I don't know.
I hadn't heard, whether they have a new one or not.
when is the,
N F L draft
the N F L draft even gone yet?
Not yet.
I don't know whether they have one of the first,
choices of somebody,
that would be real good.
ye ,
everybody gets in draft.
I don't know whether they'll be far enough up where they can do any good.
even making the playoffs
that help you in the draft.
really, really and truly we just don't have a quarterback,
that's all there is to it.
the players and stuff, they finally quit giving away the really good players and started keeping them too.
we had some,
you remember when Archie Manning was a quarterback?
That was a few years ago.
he was good.
get a real good player they'd treat him bad.
of course, we had a different coach then, too.
they'd treat him bad
he'd leave. *
either they'd trade him off to somebody else for two of these nobodies. *
it was weird.
It was like they were trying, if you were good, (( boy )) , let's don't have you on our team,
this year they had all good players except for the quarterback.
The quarterback, all of them, every one that they played,
I think they played,
I can't remember whether we played three or four quarterbacks,
all of them were bad.
they were terrible.
They could not pitch.
they couldn't even take handoffs.
It was,
terrible .
that's one,
all the other places,
it's one thing,
our defense was unbelievable.
Did you get to watch any of their games?
lucky though to have, Jim Kelly than,
now he's the number one rated quarterback in the N F L. I think,
I'm pretty sure he was this past season.
then with, the defense, with there at linebacker there, they've got a very well rounded team
it seems that they've gotten over their bickering and their fighting as had in the past
now they're, really playing team.
Do you watch it every Sunday?
when I can.
the band I play in, I,
this is just something on the side
the band I play in, we tend to rehearse quite a bit on Sundays.
I missed a lot of Sundays during
Did you ever get to watch any of the, New Orleans games?
(( Ac , ))
have to confess I don't really scope out the New Orleans games, per se.
I'm a, *
New Orleans just one of the areas,
I've lived in so many places.
I've lived in, Denver
I don't like the Broncos.
no love for the Broncos.
I've lived in,
I was born in Buffalo
I lived Boston for five years
my family lives in Philadelphia now
I tend to look for,
Teams in your area.
I lived in Detroit, too.
first of all, first and foremost the Bills games I want to see.
I'll, normally check out the Eagles or the Patriots
Patriots were so depressing this last year that
I know it .
I kind of gave up on them.
first and foremost the Bills.
I even wen ,
I a Bills game this year, which was fun.
It was Bills, Eagles game, which appropriately enough
that's neat.
the Bills won.
it was good weather.
(( We beat )) Buffalo was it third of December?
my goodness.
it was sunny and forty five degrees.
we couldn't a done much better than that in Buffalo .
usually it's snowing .
Ice and rain and everything.
I tell you what,
if you get to watch some of these,
I don't know how it will be this year,
these games go right down to the wire.
It was like I was sitting on the edge of my chair, going no, no.
I can't remember.
It was about,
it was right close to when we was going to find out if we was going to get to be in the playoffs,
or not .
we're watching the game.
All right.
The other team got the ball
the ball back.
That's the way it was.
they had to kick. to know whether we were going to win the game or lose a game because they got one point ahead of us.
we had to sit there,
they cut the show off and us another football game.
We did not get to see the end of the game.
You talk about people calling in.
my gosh.
It was wild.
here everybody is sitting on the edge of their chair,
then they changed the game.
they changed it and gave us another game in the middle of another, one that was going on.
Cut us off right there the last few seconds.
The station finally,
Started telling everybody that they were not the ones that had cut that off, that it was the national,
It was the network.
it was funny.
everybody was furious.
I was so mad I got up and went and called,
I couldn't believe that.
almost every game that I watched it would come right down to the end,
we would be ahead,
they'd let them get up there either with them or, right ahead of them.
it'd come right down to the end
either we made it or we didn't.
something else.
I said this is the most,
if we had a quarterback this year we would have went to the Super Bowl.
There's no question about it, because everybody was playing good together except the quarterbacks.
the quarterbacks just didn't do anything.
(( )) guy that counts .
get your guy.
I don't think Jim Kelly is about to be swayed away from the Bills any time.
do you have a personal computer?
we do have one our home,
it's on the fritz right now, because the monitor isn't working properly
it has been, used tremendously, mostly by my children for, playing games .
Oh .
However, the bane of our existence these days,
it does have a word processing program, which all of us have used for and papers and that sort of thing.
that's what,
when this subject was mentioned to us I said,
I went, gee, that's all I use mine for is a word processor,
I haven't used it since I got out of college,
that was six years ago,
was my sister's who,
my sister bought it
my father had a small business
she thought that he would incorporate it and use it in the business,
he never did,
he always did everything out by hand.
He only had three employees,
it wasn't really worth it to him it.
Actually, it would be worth it, if he were able to get a program that would do something that he normally had to do by hand.
like pay, the payroll
there are,
basically payroll.
lots of them on the market.
you do have to research that, find out what works for your system .
What kind do you have?
it's an I B M,
I think it's a Professional Three Hundred,
the digital one.
It's an, I B M P C Junior, I think.
that's a nice computer.
she uses it now, my sister, to,
actually, she moved
my father wasn't using it, *
she took it with her .
She (( )) took it with her, *
don't blame her.
because she needed it to do,
she just finished up her Bachelor's degree
I don't know if she's going to even use it anymore.
Yeah .
encourage her to try other things,
I am,
I work in a school system,
I teach writing
we use the computers a great deal for word processing, because students really do seem to be freer when they write on the computer, as you probably found out yourself,
I also am sponsoring a literary magazine,
we're doing our entire layout on the computer , because of the graphics program and a page maker program that we have,
a publishing program .
it is wonderful,
a very good use.
once you get into some of the programs that are out now, you can do so much with them,
that you don't do until you really make yourself use them.
I know got to be a lot of uses,
it's just have,
You have to make yourself do it,
to have a need.
you have to have a need.
I really have no need for it at all,
I work for Digital Equipment
we have a powerful computer down at work.
you don't need a personal one ?
I still really don't do that much, as you say, play games on it ,
they're great for playing games.
My brother,
my son is, studying electronic technology,
he's been able to do things the personal computer here that really have enhanced his, reports, and his learning and all because he can lay things out that way.
I guess it,
if you're doing that sort of thing it's really useful,
unless it is, I guess it's kind of a waste.
I know some people
they just went through a course, and took the electronic grafting course,
drafting, not grafting,
but drafting course,
the C A D.
I knew what you meant,
that's really neat,
you can do on it too,
one step above it,
it's actual, drafting,
I always,
you can do wonderful design.
really, s ,
especially when anyone who's ever done any kind of drafting or engineering
you have to be so precise.
the computer does it all for you.
it was really neat.
I wanted to go to that course,
my boss wouldn't pay for it,
I'm like, I'll get a job some day and my boss will pay for it,
I'll be needed.
I didn't want to go do it myself
I didn't think I was really going to use it.
(( I got )) this cough,
I've got a cold because it was eighty degrees up here and I went outside with no coat on.
boy .
it was bad.
What a change, huh?
was a big change.
You couldn't really wear a coat because it was so hot,
again, I picked up a cold.
I'm doing all right, getting over it.
that's good.
even know how much, personal computers cost nowadays.
they vary tremendously.
you can get
the ones that were made a few years ago, have come down in price significantly,
for five, and six hundred dollars,
they memory, and capable,
they can't do your,
of much less.
your drafting and your graphs,
you can't do very much on them.
and all of that.
it's just that be able to get your program in,
of the programs are so big,
they take up so much space that you don't have any place then to work.
You don't have any,
bytes left
you want to go into one that's really useful, you're going to have to go over a thousand dollars,
even for a personal computer it's probably smart to spend that much,
ours is not quite that powerful,
You do run in ,
which may be one reason why,
you do run into limitations on yours?
some things we can't do,
we haven't needed to either,
we've been able to do what we can.
Wow, that's neat that reach the limits of yours.
I haven't even begun to reach the limits,
mine is not as good as a P C,
ours is a Commodore One Twenty eight.
not quite useful, not quite as powerful.
say that Commodore has made a good, P C for the price, though.
They did,
that's very true,
that's very true,
they did.
Very competitive.
know much money my sister spent on hers,
just thought going to be a waste,
she's not going to do it,
not going to use it.
Sounds that you were right .
she likes it,
she gets to write her reports,
like I say,
she could have bought a much cheaper model and done what she wanted.
she could have bought a typewriter also .
a typewriter with memory have been fine,
it's all she uses it for.
I think it might have a spelling editor on it,
I'm not sure.
it prob ,
doesn't she could easily put it on.
Yeah. *
that's great thing about it .
Which program did you use?
Did you use Word Perfect?
really don't,
six years ago.
She pretty much set it up.
She goes, here, you make your file, and then you can, edit it.
I used at work a lot,
matter of fact, anything I've had to write from now on, I had to ca ,
God forbid,
write a couple of resumes, *
I was just great,
all you have to do is just put it in check mode,
I don't even have to look words up anymore.
they're great,
you're right .
I guess we've spent our time.
I need to go help my daughter do something,
this has been fun talking to you.
Good luck.
bye bye.
do you think,
I wonder,
the assumption is that it is a problem,
I've never actually had too many people explain to me why it's a problem, though I have the same instinctual feeling that it's a problem
it's not clear to me that it is.
bo ,
it's a problem if those voting don't represent the population demographically, or in terms of their opinions.
if those who don't vote, if you made them vote
it those who don't vote would have voted exactly the same way, in other words if forty percent had voted for that person and sixty percent for the other, just like everyone who did vote, it's not clear to me that it is really a problem,
I had thought,
I that it's a problem also,
I see your point on that.
assume that those who don't vote,
if you look at the break down of those who don't vote, they tend to be,
poor blacks, for example, vote very little, and things like that
I assume that they would vote differently if they were voting, than your average voter.
I don't know if that's the case.
In fact I've heard of studies that suggest that that isn't.
Apparently they don't think it's a problem .
I guess not,
vote religiously,
I really do.
I'm a fan of democracy
wish I could vote on more things frankly.
That's right,
it's funny because here in California things are getting, increasingly democratically oriented, the sense of people being able to vote for things.
we have these now.
The first really one was, Proposition Thirteen which was a, tax revolt,
I r ,
against property taxes.
now we're,
that was whatever, ten years ago
now we're up to Proposition a Hundred and fifty or something like that.
we've just,
there were apparently voters who just threw up their hands after the last voters pamphlet because they were to make decisions on topics that would have three different competing proposals
you had to vote for, yes or no on each of them
no one could make heads or tails out of some of them
it was incredibly complicated and difficult.
a lot of people revolted against that,
they said we don't want to have to decide all these things,
that's why we hire people make these decisions for us.
kind of feel the opposite, though.
I wish we were given an opportunity to vote on more things.
I do t ,
I think our elected officials say they are speaking for us
they're not speaking for me.
I wouldn't mind having, more votes than I get to have, frankly .
That's true.
Anyone who doesn't vote, it's fine with me as long as I can have their vote.
. *
That would make me happy though.
Maybe not deep philosophical sense, but in a selfish sense, it probably would.
I don't know,
it's interesting, some countries voting is obligatory.
it is in Australia, for example.
Is that true?
I didn't know that,
I was think ,
that is one solution to it.
I don't know how I feel about that.
I don't,
that's not really democratic. Not what I'd consider truly democratic.
Australia considers itself every bit as much a democracy as the United States.
it's not for me to say that they're not.
here you have the right to vote
they simply define it as a duty there.
to pay taxes,
is that democratic?
we don't have the right to pay taxes in this country,
we have the duty to pay taxes.
It's a duty, right.
in that country it's a duty to pay taxes
it's a duty to vote on how those taxes are spent.
it's not clear to me that, that's so much less democratic.
I don't know,
part of me rebels against that,
I'm an American.
it's complex question when you start thinking about it, isn't it .
some people don't vote,
there is
like three or four percent of Australians don't vote
I think they're for a fine.
I don't know if they actually are fined what happens,
you're eligible for some sort of fine if you don't vote.
That's interesting.
I have people here that I know that have never registered to vote.
they feel they can criticize if they don't .
I was sort of, s ,
I told them if they don't vote they don't have the right to criticize.
that's how I feel.
vote and your guy looses tried
you can say something
if you don't vote, if you didn't vote, you get what's coming to you,
That's right,
I feel th ,
certainly that's true in the overall,
no one individual that's true for but for the population as a whole,
I sort of feel that way. don't vote for someone because they don't like any of them and then the person gets in and they don't like him and he turns out to have been worse than her that they might have voted for, or something like that. *
I say voting for the lesser of two evils is still important.
I think it is too.
Sometimes it is a difficult choice.
You don't feel as though you have much of a choice,
it's funny because technically you do.
you have the right to do a write in candidate.
of course not really a vote.
It doesn't really gain anything.
it doesn't,
a complicated situation,
I would like to see,
I don't know,
I'm, I'm thinking of actually moving to Australia
Is that goin ,
I'll call you back and let you know the Australian system works.
not because of the vo , I'm not thinking of moving there because of the voting,
Not be ,
but just because of a job opportunity.
I see.
I'm not.
I just wondered.
really curious, how that would work, to have both,
I believe certain,
Soviet bloc countries you obliged to vote too.
In fact, it was even pretty much spelled out who you did vote for, up until fairly recently
that's what I think of when I think of you're obliged to vote.
when you actually, really are given as much choice as you are in this country, with its two party system,
I don't know,
I kind of,
part of me is wary
part of me likes the idea of having it be more of a duty,
maybe they should,
perhaps that would be a solution if they were required to vote at least for their first three or four years after they become of voting age.
Required to register and vote for four years,
perhaps they would be indoctrinated that this is their duty.
that's a thought,
certain privileges come from voting which aren't that important but are nice to have,
I don't know.
The right to write your,
Maybe it should go with a drivers license .
an example of a right,
that's considered a privilege, not a right.
That is a privilege,
tha ,
technically it's a privilege,
most people think of it as a right.
in other words if the government people get very upset.
actually it's a privilege,
It is.
which is allowed to be revoked.
That's correct.
fortunately voting isn't that.
if you're a felon,
if you're a felon it is taken away from you.
(( )) they will take away your right to vote, under certain circumstances.
That's right.
we don't have a great solution yet do we ,
Don't have a great
think I checked that as a question I'd be willing to discuss too .
also, I also, I don't know if you've, read any of the early documents, when they were arguing through constitutional law written by Hamilton and all those people.
I haven't.
who wrote number ten or something, where he was arguing for a republican, not in the sense of the Republican party now,
versus a democratic, government and, arguing successfully, why, the United States should be a republic, not a democracy. Which indeed it really is, a republic, not a democracy.
Where he defines as everyone votes for the issues and republic is people who vote for someone who then in turn votes for the issues.
In other words, you vote for representatives.
the whole idea was, presumably those who get voted in would be wiser than the average person, a specialist and able to make more informed decisions and can protect against the tyranny of democracy,
. *
just as you can have a tyranny of a single, bad ruler or something, you can have a tyranny of the majority.
huh. *
he makes a very, passionate, good argument for why you don't want some things decided by democratic process,
anytime you have a majority, they can change the law in process
there are cases when you don't want that to be the case.
a candi ,
if there's some minority that people don't like because of, racial hatred or something like that, the majority can just simply them.
cases like that, he argues, need to be constrained,
actually I agree, except that I don't trust the people who are appointed to vote .
Sometimes I think we have that right now, with Congress.
wa ,
I think they're looking after their own self preservation more than they're actually looking after the good of the country.
their job is to be reelected, by in large,
they work on that job.
there's also an antigovernment mood in the country, where government is misspending your dollars
they're all fools,
the bastards out,
that kind of thing.
there's a notion that somehow, if someone isn't as much as a government person, they're less corrupt and they're more likely to be good which is really strange,
if I'm hiring a plumber, I want a real plumber,
I want someone trained in,
do you think about the metric system?
do you, find it useable?
Have you tried much with it?
an engineering,
degree, a whole lot easier.
To use you mean,
somebody totally unfamiliar with it, human nature being what it is we don't like to change.
it just absolutely makes perfectly good sense to me because it's all decimal.
it's so easy to convert from one set of units to another.
well I've lived both in the United States in a country where they do use the metric system
lived with (( )) pounds and inches and found it really quite easy to convert over.
the secret seeming to me to be to not bother ever converting inches to centimeters and,
pounds to
That's right.
I think that's what hung people up the most is they went now wait a minute, an inch is two point fifty four centimeters,
how on earth am I every going to do the math? *
the problem is that we tried to convert everything from inches to centimeters preserving basically the inches but expressing them as centimeters rather than saying no, a centimeter is about the width of your thumbnail, or whatever, leaving it at that
a kilogram weighs about this much
get used to it from scratch,
I still can't convert back and forth from inches to centimeters
I'm perfectly comfortable using either.
I think the real problem with weird conversion, see signs that say fifty five miles per hour and, whatever it would be one hundred six kilometers per hour,
it's hard to take it seriously.
as long as both were given, you, basically, just don't read the kilometers per hour,
you just say, look read the miles per hour one,
the other one must be for someone else.
That's right.
I don't know,
I mean even Britain has converted over
we inherited this mess from them
That's right,
it's all their fault.
it's more our fault than theirs at this point because saw the light,
I don't know why they more able than we were
except I think, that they probably just said we're just going to start using the things now
you sort of have to force people to change since they don't want to .
Of course, being part of the European community, if everybody else did it were probably much more,
is much more necessary for them than for us.
That's true,
probably true
America does have a long history of sort of doing things our own way rather than adopting, some other model.
There's an expression for that,
With eyes on the past, backing confidently into the future.
I've never heard that one,
that's very nice .
I'm all for the metric system and converting over
I think,
I guess, my feeling is the way to do it to just start giving weights, have a very brief transition period and then just start giving weights and kilometers, just as in kilometers and weights and kilograms and everything like that and, just have people start using it rather than having people constantly trying to convert.
Remember me getting a package of something that said one pound,
this is a package of dates mind you,
presumably something you weigh fairly precisely,
it said one pound
in parenthesis it said four hundred fifty four point six grams .
as near as I could tell, seeing that was basically anti metric propaganda
anyone who would say, look I can either buy a pound of something at four hundred sixty four point six grams which, of course, they couldn't weigh it out accurately anyway,
every time I see something like that I think, an anti metric argument.
don't think could ever happen a quick transition.
You don't?
think that would be the easiest way
human nature being such as it is,
I would think it would take, probably, two or three years before people completely cut the cord.
that's what I was thinking by quick transition,
I didn't mean, I didn't mean like Sweden going over to right hand drive or anything,
at midnight, tonight we all switch over or anything.
Did they switch?
I believe so,
I think they did it overnight
you can't do it gradually.
That's an example of something you can't do gradually.
that's true.
has to be kind of a discreet transaction .
it does .
A quantum leap from left to right hand drive .
that must have taken,
that was something that had to be done quickly,
because of external circumstances,
they decided to do it to make themselves in sync with the rest of Europe,
or the rest of continental Europe
that must have been tremendously difficult to orchestrate.
I'm sure.
I, I, I think it's essential that it's done
I think the real trick is to avoid the
a little more attention to human psychology
whereas, people want round numbers
after all, the whole reason to go over to metric is to have round numbers,
they don't deal with thirty seconds of an inch
what the exact,
the thing that was best about metric was the thing that was most poorly represented.
Really, I think.
we do have the two liter soda pop bottles.
I saw that,
I saw that the other day.
I drink soda pop,
I saw a two liter soda pop bottle
things like that are a good start
if you start expressing one liters and one kilograms and then the pounds come in the odd numbers,
two point two pounds or something. I think people will start getting a sense of, gee the metric is the sensible one.
That's true.
sure have enjoyed our talk.
get back to what you're doing
I'll do the same.
I enjoyed talking with you too.
God bless y ,
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
Do you exercise a lot?
it's scaled back considerably.
right now my exercise is pretty much limited to, softball league and occasional ride on the bike,
just nine months ago, got married and bought a house
my outside activities have been curtailed a lot.
Is mowing the lawn a new exercise ?
it's a forty year old house,
we are doing a lot of refurbish work,
painting, lawn, gutters.
You name it, all kinds of stuff, flower beds.
I think that's considered exercise whether you want it or not.
that's true.
always something to do
it keeps me going.
so far ahead of me.
walk two miles a day,
I really enjoyed it.
the two miles, went fairly quickly.
I could do it in twenty eight minutes.
that's not stopping and talking to everyone along the way,
it's a lot.
It's not too strenuous,
I could sort all kinds of things out and make plans and everything,
I don't know what I did to my knee.
I was crawling under a desk, hooking up a computer.
I mashed it wrong, or I did something.
the doctor has had me on medication,
she doesn't want me to walk,
she said, that's while it's healing, you're going to mess it up,
I can't walk.
she said, the most conservative approach, again and again, before you think of surgery.
I don't want her to think of surgery on my knee.
I don't want anyone to think about that , ever.
a tough situation.
That's that microscopic stuff,
not my kneecap.
being very good.
I miss it.
I really do,
it's so aggravating have an injury like that.
My wife,
down to the north end of Oak Cliff in the Castle Park area.
she started running down there and all the hills.
she lasted about two weeks,
her ankles couldn't take it anymore.
She was used to running, flat tracks and whatnot,
ever since that, it's just been real difficult.
It's real aggravating, because she starts in
her ankles will start hurting again and stuff. Even if she does get on flat ground,
she's kind of in the same mode.
She was all ready to get back into it and start running, five K's, and ten K's and stuff this spring,
she just hasn't been able to stick with the training schedule long enough to really get back in shape.
when you want to do it, it's really, really aggravating.
one thing to get motivated to start doing the exercise,
it's another thing already be past that and then not be able to because of your health.
I can you understand that.
I don't really want to,
I just, know I need to.
I make myself do it
if I do it, okay,
I don't love it, ,
I will do it.
it's not anything I would want to,
I can really tell the difference, since I have not been able to walk.
I have got to be so much more careful with what I do.
It's depressing.
it is,
don't spi ,
Speaking for myself I don't sleep as well, when I am not exercising,
harder to get out of bed in the morning and all kinds of stuff,
just gets used to it.
don't particularly enjoy it.
used to lift weights an awful lot, and stuff like that.
I do enjoy riding bike,
as far as the working out and lifting and things like that. can't say I really enjoyed it all that much,
once I got used to it, it was habit forming.
It was,
I felt so bad if I didn't,
physically, I mean
I just,
my body was tuned into mode,
skipped it then it kind of threw whole, the whole system out of whack.
hopefully knee is a hundred percent better.
Maybe I can get back into it.
That's for sure.
Let me ask you a question off the subject though.
the Castle Park area?
That's right.
I grew up in Oak Cliff.
Did you really?
I did.
just close to Methodist Hospital.
On Candy,
C a n d y.
in fact, I lived there until fifties.
that area, is it changing back again?
So many people are moving back into those old houses and are restoring them.
it is.
a little street called Bison Trail.
It's only about a block and a half long,
over on the other end.
over by the far edge of, Stephen's Park Golf Course.
I know exactly where that is.
you know where the little bridge is on North Oak Cliff Boulevard?
we are just south of that little bridge, back up on the hill in the trees there,
our street is an awful lot of retired people,
the other half,
in fact, our one little block and a half there, four houses sold last summer
three sold the summer before,
everybody in their late twenties to mid thirties are buying, starting to rebuild and fix things up again
everybody is real excited.
That is a gorgeous, gorgeous place.
a lot of fun,
the people are great.
There too, we've got a real active neighborhood association.
four regular parties every year
we do a neighborhood recycling program and, all that kind of stuff.
it's a lot of fun
a really beautiful area.
of the people, some of the higher dollars lawyers and stuff downtown too, are picking up some of those great big houses,
getting them at a real bargain.
sure *
they are.
You know.
getting four thousand square feet for a hundred fifty, a hundred and seventy five thousand dollars.
they're just going to town with them.
putting in pools completely redoing the outside restoring to the original, nineteen thirty, nineteen forties look.
it's really coming around.
I guess...
I need to go over there and just drive around and look.
worth the trip.
I'm sure it must be.
I'm just,
we had a lovely little house over there,
it was a two story.
story and a half, really, because we had a basement.
the guy that built it was weird,
I mean weird .
It's one of these really creative houses,
that I grew up in that nothing was on the same level with anything else.
I just loved the neighborhood.
had houses like that.
They were all completely different.
that's right.
so neat.
ours is kind of a little ranch style with a great big, I guess, it's twenty eight by fifteen front porch.
Next door, we've got an Austin stone.
Across the street, the guy,
it was burnt out about two years ago
the guy moved in and completely redid
a rounded front on it.
It's all brick,
landscaped his yard
he's about ready to put in a pool and things like that.
there's a variety,
you just don't see it anywhere else, as far as the different styles in the houses and whatnot.
why couldn't your wife run around the golf course?
Is that not good?
she could, a little bit.
I tell you what,
we got into the fitness center at Methodist
they have a quarter mile track there.
she has started doing that take off.
The problem is she's a school teacher
for her, she can't run in the morning.
For her to get home and try to run at six o'clock in the night, in the winter time, it's starting to get dark
you don't want to,
she doesn't want to be out by herself anywhere in Dallas.
Regardless whether it's north Dallas or whatnot, when she goes over to this fitness center, it's fenced in,
there's somebody in the building, watching her and all that,
there's a lot of consideration.
really hear that,
I think, you're in Oak Cliff.
I'm in Plano.
In west Plano.
we live on one of those blocks that it's a neighborhood watch block.
We all know each other,
the street doesn't go anywhere.
If you are on the street, you better belong there.
That's right.
Because it's not a through street.
That's right.
still, I want to get up early in the morning and walk.
Before this knee business.
my husband had a lot of heartburn with that.
it looked darker to him, because was in the house with the lights on.
When I was out walking, it, was more of a predawn type,
pretty, but,
huh huh,
he didn't think it looked predawn to him.
It looked dark.
even he was real concerned about that.
it's not just because you are in Oak Cliff,
it's just because you're smart.
That's true.
That you don't do things like that.
It only takes one time.
That's right.
It's a hard lesson to learn.
There's only one crazy out there, to make any difference.
it goes all over
you got the.
Ready to talk?
I guess so .
I want to talk about, our family budget,
and the times that it's worked and the times that it hasn't worked and,
give you a general description of it
you can help me out a little *
. *
Tell me how yours works.
Okay. *
at the my ,
I introduced you a little bit to it, a few minutes ago, when I said that on the east coast now.
My husband quit a perfectly wonderful job and decided that,
we both decided we wanted to move to North Carolina.
naturally we put ourselves,
we looked at our budget,
what we did was draw up a budget that we thought, was realistic.
we had to make some adjustments
we really are kind of looking for something that we want to do and he wants to do that's satisfactory,
we've been here seven months
he's still hasn't hit up on anything permanently.
you see,
That throws the budget out of whack real fast.
we actually planned for about one year.
that God because, *
it never occurred to ,
That was smart.
it never occurred to us that it would take seven months.
what we did was just, decide we had been spending our money before,
we put that on the computer
we took about three months adjusted,
where we could come down and where we didn't want to come down,
we really, lessened more than what we thought we would.
Wow, that's great.
Did you have a special program on your computer to do that
was this just your own design of,
just our own design.
we've had budgets that didn't work when our,
our first fifteen years or eighteen years of being married nothing worked .
. *
We spent too much money,
Yeah. *
until our children went to college,
tell me about,
do you all, have a budget?
we've been married for five and a half years
we started out without kids, of course, and found it much easier to save and used to do a lot , more fun kinds of of things and, did really, have a real strict
(( about and ))
to our,
wh , wh , when we first got married we were in graduate school
we were just, dirt poor.
Then when we got our first jobs after about a year of marriage we decided we'd bank my salary so we could buy a house.
we virtually did that for about two years,
which worked real well, and then moved from California where we realized we could never buy a house anyway no matter how much we saved,
and moved to Texas, bought a house immediately, which, of course, is now devalued with the housing market,
I don't know if did a good thing to buy a house or not
at least we've got a place to live.
now, since, we have a three year old and a two year old now,
Three and a two year old.
Bang, *
that threw our budget really out of whack too.
An we, have been just forced to budget much more because I quit working to be home with the kids.
we just really have,
I don't know,
tried different times,
we've done a survey of taking, the past three months of where all the money went.
we really don't spend on anything much of a luxury or anything at all,
it seems like there's, times when we just have to get out where we'll go and get a baby sitter and we'll go and we'll blow, fifty, sixty dollars in one night going out to eat, going to a show or doing something,
I think that's important for your budget to be realis ,
for it to work though, you have to do something.
that's the hard part because when we sit down to make it, we try to make it real spartan and real narrow so we can put a certain amount in savings every week
it's not really that realistic
we do find that we want to go and do something or splurge for, birthday for somebody
do things real frugally for the kids,
we get a lot of toys and clothes and stuff at garage sales or from friends because they don't know the difference at this age, whether they're JORDACHE new or whether they're , *
Of course not.
they're both boys
they just (( )) one year after the other in each other's clothes,
that's the hardest part for us is that it's really, budgeting and some extra things, that are more, nonessential items.
I found, that, in the place that it was harder for me to stick to a budget was not where we were concerned,
but where maybe our friends were concerned and our relatives and parents.
tended to want to keep on giving lavish,
gifts as,
we had done before.
I really believe that if you're going to cut down on yourself, you need to cut down somewhat on your friends.
On your friends,
that's true,
that's true.
we have so many unexpected things come up so often it seems with,
we both have older cars
something will come up and wind up having to spend a thousand dollars, on the car in two months or something,
a lot of things like that that really hard to plan for.
I really do,
I think you have to budget those things though.
kind of put in a certain amount per year, *
you're going to have on extra expenses for car.
(( although )) so much per month anyway.
that really should be in your bu ,
if you don't spend it, it should be in your bank account at the end of the month .
our biggest way of saving money is then to stop all these deductions, is to,
let's see,
I forget which way we do it.
We don't list all the deductions
we get more money back, at the end of the year,
that's not a good way to ,
You don't want the government to spend your money.
You want to be able,
that's what my husband said,
this last year he changed it, of course,
we didn't get nearly as much back
it was like oh, no.
Better find another way of saving money .
I do realize that, that is realistic for some people,
it was for us many years,
for many years.
that's the only way that make you save and have a little nest egg at the end of year then doggone it that's what you should do.
we don't miss it,
we really don't, when it's just taking out of the paycheck and stuff,
we're trying to put a little money away for the kids because we can the, expenses for college already, eighteen years away or whatever.
I was just reading an article in, a North Carolina today where a high school student obtained over two hundred thousand dollars worth of scholarships for herself by sitting up at night and typing at, letters of applications to universities.
third out of a class of two hundred and twenty,
it can be done.
I guess,
Where there's a will,
that's fantastic.
where there's a will, there's a way, right? .
Yeah .
I have enjoyed talking to you.
I enjoyed talking to you too,
good luck
don't spend any money this weekend .
I know
(( we'll )) have to stay home and mow the yard .
Bye bye.
go ahead.
What kind of books do you like to read?
(( )) , I like all kinds of books.
Mostly, something, I like true life,
(( )) , documentaries or real stories about real people and that kind of stuff or dramas in real life.
I also like romantic novels.
READERS DIGEST, believe it or not.
so do I.
I usually read that from cover to cover.
I like it because there's a little bit of everything in it.
that kind of a thing.
as far as real novels, I haven't gotten into Shakespeare or any of that type of thing.
I wish I had some senses
I don't have time really as much as I would like get into that kind of thing.
How about you?
I like, like you said, real life,
I like biographies of people's lives,
especially athletes,
for some reason it seems to interest me, people that make a big comeback
Orel Hershiser, things like that.
I like to read books on improve, like family, marriage, things that are written by Christian authors or, doctors about family and, how to improve your home and all that kind of thing.
I like to re ,
the magazines I
to rel ,
I like to read (( )) ,
I read a lot of bicycling magazines.
I mainly look at the pictures and stuff,
they usually have some good articles in it.
I don't know
I haven't really found any romance type stuff I like to read.
more true,
I haven't found a lot of, fiction books that I really like
not to say I wouldn't,
eventually *
What was the last book you read?
let me think,
I tell you I haven't read a book in a long time.
I can't even really remember.
I think it was a romantic novel by Danielle Steel or one of those.
, yeah,
I don't do as much reading, like I say, as I would like to.
(( )) working a lot of hours at work
of course,
I know.
we have a home
a lot time is spent doing things as far as the yard work or housework or,
that type of thing.
set a goal for myself to read a book a month this year which is about eleven more books than I would have read last year,
so far I've only read two books
I'm not doing very well
I do crafts too,
it's hard,
have a minute that's what do.
I find it's real hard,
I let stack up and magazines stack up, if I don't really set aside a time to look or read them.
That's the,
that's like myself
I miss it, because I really find it a very relaxing hobby too.
I really do
I don't know
it seems like you can get lost in a book,
it's like an escape for me.
I don't know about you.
if I'm really interested in what I'm reading, hours can go by
look up at the clock and say, my word,
In fact, I'd rather read sometimes than watch T V.
I would too.
I think you get out of the habit, like you say,
you have to kind of set yourself,
Kind of train your mind. *
Have you ever read, or heard of the book THIS PRESENT DARKNESS?
That was one of the books I read this year,
it's really fast paced and intense.
it was ar ,
it was one of the best I read,
it was real good,
one of the few books that
just hurry up and go through without putting down,
that's the other problem I have.
If I start into something and I really enjoy what I'm reading,
then I have a terrible time getting away from it too.
I'll stay up until two or three o'clock in the morning, because I'm so engrossed in it
before you know time to get up and go to work.
You know, that type of thing.
That's why
don't know
kind of a nut when it comes to stuff like that.
Even if I'm, doing something like an afghan, if I'm close to the end, sometimes I'll , do the same thing.
I don't know what you would call it,
maybe I have a problem .
I'm sure it's fast (( )) or something.
It's terrible,
really like books you can get into
that's that.
I know what you mean.
I like reading late at night right before I go to bed sometimes
I just sleep better or something.
you do
you kind of get relaxed,
that's true.
I have a lot of craft books that I have too and, magazines.
I like PEOPLE, those things that are about real people.
like to, read about people who have been a successful,
made a success of their lives.
book have you read that is along those lines,
that was really good?
give you specific titles can't. *
how about who,
Like I say, haven't done it such a long time.
Do you know who it was about?
I went to, seminar on,
it was American business
some of the people,
what the heck was his name,
I'm trying to think.
He's one of the,
Paroe, *
it was more like,
it was tapes and things that they had about him, too.
How he started out as just a salesman and now he's, multimillionaire and that type of thing,
how you have to, be aggressive and, really want something for yourself and that type of stuff.
It's up to you, in other words, whatever happens in your life.
It's not up,
it's not someone else,
you have to do it.
I find that fascinating that people, can do that kind of thing. Just make up their minds that that's it. have this one direction. *
do it.
Do it.
I can't,
I'm not that focused on something.
off in all directions.
I'm not, a planner which I wish I was.
kind of off the wall.
If someone says, do you want to do this tonight, and I got a mountain of things to do, it's okay, we do it.
that's all right.
I know,
I know,
I wish I was more the other way.
You're more fun though,
You're not (( ridged )) right? *
right *
(( )) , I like it that way though.
I would, I don't want to change that part of me.
That's good.
That's funny,
though I admire someone who isn't,
like I am, I wish I could be more that way
There may be some schools you could read about and learn.
That's true,
that's true.
How many people do you supervise?
about twenty.
that's not bad.
That's not bad at all.
Do you like your job?
Sometimes more than others.
I do.
I've been there about three years.
that's important.
Do you have a family?
I just got married last year
most of my family's in Indiana.
I've only been in Texas three years.
Do you like it?
I do.
I love the weather down here.
loved, I loved Abilene too.
That's what I liked, too, is the weather.
I know.
Except for tornados .
have storms here
they do.
Hail and thunder and,
it's so surprising how it just happens,
Were you here during the hailstorm two years ago?
I've been up here about three.
we were down there, from eighty six,
ei ,
part of eighty four to eighty six I should say.
I had thirty three hundred dollars damage done on my car,
a lot of people had their cars totaled just from hail.
I think State Farm went bankrupt.
Just about .
I know the whole situation is bad up here,
we're having a terrible time with the recession.
It's not good at all.
I know things are pretty booming down there.
I heard they sold (( Johnson City )) (( though )) .
and Colorado Springs.
And Colorado Springs?
I talked to a guy on the phone on this the other day
he was telling me about it.
They just sold it.
Closed up and moved down to McKinney.
that's good.
At least they kept the business part of it.
It's scary though I'm telling you.
(( I know )) .
I don't know,
with the other part of this thing was, how do you feel that this influences family.
How do I feel what?
books influence,
do you know how to use them in your life or to influence,
feel like it's important for young children to read too.
And what you read to them.
When my children younger, of course,
they were all married and grown
I have grandchildren now,
they were,
I, I read to them a lot.
That's good.
I think they've all developed kind of an interest in reading also.
That's re ,
I'm not saying they read all the right things
they do read. where a lot of people don't have any interest in it at all,
I think it's important,
even today where people are so illiterate and they go off to school and really nothing happens, they don't learn anything.
It's because they can't read.
it's really surprising how many people graduate from high school,
that I work with
I get memos all the time across my desk
things are misspelled
it's really,
isn't it?
It's pretty sad.
A lot of people that work for me that can't even spell or read,
I think that that's why reading is so important,
I think even mentally when you can do some,
I don't,
guess we got our first, credit card, back in the when,
I first got married
was a Visa card. issued out of a Liberty Bank in Oklahoma City,
my sister worked at center there. *
we were still in college
had she not worked there I'm not sure that I would have qualified.
They've come in handy over the years.
they have become, also real bother sometimes.
tell me about it .
Especially, if you catch yourself short on cash or if you're on vacation,
it's just easier to put everything on a card.
I find if you're not careful you wind up, a month or so, staring those bills in the face
you go I don't remember doing all that stuff
it adds up.
they add up quick .
sometimes, especially traveling with T I,
everything goes on American Express,
it makes it a whole lot easier for bookkeeping.
as far as personal life goes, I guess, I really try to use them as little as possible,
I kind of like having them for, gasoline purchases.
we like to keep one on hand just for emergencies,
other than that, guess over the years tried to avoid the national credit card syndrome,
of just putting everything on there day after day after day
then you really get socked to it, if you don't watch it.
do you look at (( counting )) credit cards?
We just, quit using them .
they got us in trouble,
we took a loan and paid them all off.
one gas card Visa just, in case there's an emergency or,
other than that we don't use them anymore .
that's kind of the way we (( were doing ))
I guess for that very reason if you're not real conscious of what you're doing,
it's just too much by the time you get,
if you got a bunch of cards,
you get a bunch of bills every month
for some strange reason those people think they need to get paid.
I know,
isn't that funny?
I give them,
really concerned about getting paid
know if you don't,
then they're adding on, what, eighteen, nineteen, twenty percent.
it's twenty two percent interest.
some of them add late fees on it,
if they don't get paid
I guess that's one of the motivations behind the,
(( )) the, American Express card with T I,
there's no,
with the American Express card from T I,
(( huh )) .
there's no, late fee,
there's no, interest rate,
pay the thing off
they come get it.
it's turned into personnel
they come get you .
they've got quite a bit more motivation I think to get paid then,
some of the others do.
that's the one that your call center manager sees every month,
you're a little bit more careful about what you put on that,
. *
even though you can use it however you want to.
Can you use that one for personal use? *
you can?
You can use it like any other card,
I see,
know that somebody every month,
who knows how many people,
are looking at those, bills that come in, and those statements,
you're not the only one.
want to make sure that, is that okay,
is that that those people see what it is that you are buying,
most of the time it is.
most of the others I've sent back, all you get is card offers, *
I've got three card offers now,
from gas companies and, Visa Gold and, some, , other bank,
Citibank I think is always sending (( the )) Visa stuff out.
I usually just throw them away because I,
I do too,
I don't even open them much,
I throw them out.
I don't want another one,
I don't want to have to mess with it.
you carry around a wallet full of credit cards,
one of these days it's going to all be full.
A girlfriend of mine found a,
it was a Visa or MasterCard,
she found an ad for one in a GOOD magazine for eleven percent.
that's not bad.
(( )) shoot I need one of those .
if they don't say, no annual membership on them, I'll throw them away.
years ago, I had my Visa card through this bank in Oklahoma City for, *
probably fifteen years,
they started charging, annual membership fees,
I said, adios, not paying you,
Why do they do that?
It's just another way to make money,
as far as I can tell.
they've been,
they get enough, on the interest .
figure they've got enough people out there with cards,
they're going to get cards at
twenty bucks a pop.
There's going to be that much more.
then a couple years ago I found, a bank here in Plano that if you kept a minimum balance in any kind of account whether it was a savings account or what it was, you can get a Visa card through them and no annual membership.
I went over and just stuck three hundred dollars in my son's savings account, in his name, and got my Visa card,
as long as they have no annual membership fee,
would be okay,
I can't see paying someone to use their card.
I can't either.
Be charged their eighteen percent interest,
I think you're right.
The best philosophy is have them if you need them, but otherwise leave them tucked away somewhere.
gets a lot of people trouble .
it sure does.
Maybe they're counting on that,
I don't know.
I guess that's it.
Thanks for talking.
Nice talking to you.
Bye bye.
Do you have any particular thoughts about the school system?
think that
recently with the,
I'm not sure if it's more a problem with American families or a problem with the school system.
They seem to be burdening the school system more and more with problems, any problems that a child might have, whether it's actually a school related thing or not
I with you a hundred percent there .
it's gotten to a point where the schools are expected to take care of everything.
If, you've some kid from a broken family, the schools are supposed to fill that void.
It's gotten way beyond
teaching classes
and maybe providing extracurricular sports activities or something like, were kind of traditionally the school's roles.
it's interesting
we're just having conversation on this, with a couple of people yesterday.
I was expressing my frustrations that, problems, are that kids don't have degree of self discipline which may be reflected in society at large.
you can't expect in a classroom for a particular course an hour a day to counteract, sixteen or seventeen years of influence at home.
it's seen more so because when you call parents up, many parents won't even recognize that there is a problem
I've never heard anything about this before.
This is the first time there have been problems.
you wonder, don't these parents know that teachers talk,
we do check with other teachers,
other teachers find the same things in
this child.
how do you tell hey, wake up, and smell the coffee .
is a problem,
I'm not sure just, the school system could operate in a vacuum on it.
Whether maybe through a commitment of the P T A, and the parents being informed better, that in fact that the problems that are nationwide
are problems, of society, and the school can only do so much on it.
again when you have, a society where a certain percentage of the parents are, doing drugs in the home
either unemployed and have their own problems
do you expect the school to, how do you expect the,
you can't really expect that parent who's, quite frankly
That's right.
a loser in life, as it is
care about situation with their child,
You know what scares me too, is that we have yet to see the biggest effect of the crack children
in the school system.
These are children that are born with low
gosh, what's going to happen when these kids start coming into the school system.
That's really scary .
a couple of areas where the school system can improve,
this is something that I see.
Too many times students get diagnosed as slow learners,
in fact they're not.
They're behavior problems.
they get put in our school system, in a class that's limited for skills children
that to master skills.
that's not their problem.
at the same time, I've seen, have international population.
There's no bridge area for students coming out of the E S O L, which is English for Speakers of Other Languages
once they're past E S O L, they get out,
they got thrown right into the total mainstream
there really needs to be a bridge, some sort of transition
for that.
the school systems can improve, both in standing up for splitting classes, having children in slow classes, but not mixing them with behavior problems.
the case where they put the behavior problems in the average classes,
you get these kids that are average students but highly motivated.
you throw in kids that are not motivated, maybe bright, but they're discipline problems.
you sometimes
the average classes really are problems
because you've got such a mixed bag there.
the gifted and talented are fast classes.
There's really not that much of a problem with.
seen more, incredibly intelligent underachievers than,
take a person who's motivated and a little, less intelligent
than the person who, is one of these very intelligent people who just kind of, isn't motivated to do anything.
I remember I had a college professor who once said that genius is one percent inspiration, and ninety nine percent perspiration.
was graduated from my high school,
I was the valedictorian,
I know
that there were a lot of kids that were an awful lot smarter than me,
they proved out late when it came time to take the S A T s.
Mine were
they weren't great.
when I got into college just to, get my degree field that I was in.
Whereas I knew people that in high school were kind of lazy and all,
they got motivated in college
they did a lot better than I did.
when it,
I guess kids do mature at different ages
as a teacher try to understanding that, there are different ages,
kids are,
is this a,
got a kid that just a question of maturity,
is he a
problem child.
teachers are asked to diagnose so much.
we're, have to be,
we're alerted
there's all sorts of systems where suicide, predisposition.
we're alerted to what the moment we see something.
If we see a child that's on drugs, such as if he's got a beeper or if they're, if they're flashing lots of money around. there are certain things to do.
asked to do so much,
you can't operate in a vacuum.
You actually have students beepers?
rather wealthy suburb of Washington.
a student with a beeper immediately gets sent down to the, principal.
what are the,
what could they possibly be thinking.
It's for drug use.
They can't imagine for anything else.
sorts of things, in the schools,
as a teacher for the kid who's very drowsy.
You're alert to the kid who suddenly has a, behavioral change,
you refer them to the nurse.
you have to find out whether there's a legitimate reason, or whether this is a warning signal.
expect to,
parents frequently resent when you ask them. Is there a problem that we should be aware of? *
Oh yeah,
I was, sitting in the barber shop.
I'm an officer in the Air Force,
I was having my hair cut
the barber got a call while I was there, from his son's school.
His son's in high school.
his son was failing gym having trouble,
with a few other things.
it's like, this guy was like, why there's no problem with my kid.
My kid's a great kid and all this.
The kid had missed all these classes,
answer was, I gave him permission miss.
the denial mechanism is really strong
so many parents are facilitators.
they're manipulated by their children.
I've been fortunate.
I have, a son who's a sophomore in college up in Massachusetts
at, Amherst,
my other son is a senior in high school,
he's going on to Williams.
they're really super.
They're both national level
we've been very fortunate,
they had to be held accountable
at some point a parent does help their kid, some ways,
you have to say at what point isn't the help becoming negative.
I think this is where the school system is suffering, and not through any fault of the effort
of the school system.
gee it was good talking with you.
It was good talking to you too.
there are people throughout the country that feel
the same ways that you do, are connected with the schools.
I've had interesting conversations on several subjects just this but
It's amazing how the, people you talk to have some interesting conversations
it's too bad that all this stuff is just being thrown into a data base, and that none of the ideas or thoughts are being used at all .
we are, though .
that's true.
good luck.
Take care,
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
what movies do you like?
I like just about anything.
saw was, TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES PART TWO.
the turtles.
My little boy's four
he loves them.
we don't have any kids
we like them anyway.
that's okay.
How old are you all?
we're late twenties.
you just don't have any yet,
I've got two.
my little girl is three months old
my little boy just turned four.
I had his birthday party yesterday.
he's a turtle fanatic.
He even had turtle cake yesterday .
I've been wanting to see TURTLE TWO.
Is it as good as they say it is?
It was,
it was actually better than the first one, I thought.
What's the last movie you saw?
the topic came up, was asking my husband right quick, what's the last movies we saw.
He said GHOST and TURTLES.
I really liked it.
I love tearjerker movies.
that wasn't too bad on tearjerker
Not too awful bad.
good movie,
though, I can see why it won so many Oscars . *
that was just so good.
I like Demi Moore.
Did you see PRETTY WOMAN?
I've been hearing a lot about it.
get to the video store very often
we don't have cable.
we don't really want cable,
it's just, glued to the T V all the time anyway.
we get two channels down here.
(( )) I'm from Kentucky originally,
we used to get five channels without cable.
I don't think you all have the same channels,
here in Texas we only get two channels,
do you watch soap operas?
once in a while, when I'm home.
you work then?
we get the channel with YOUNG AND THE RESTLESS on it.
I think GENERAL HOSPITAL
that comes on different channel.
it does.
that's all we get,
that's no cartoons for my little boy.
we've got a V C R and a lot of tapes.
my husband is a movie fanatic.
I think you would really like PRETTY WOMAN,
really a,
it made you feel really good.
It was just a happy movie.
what about TOTAL RECALL,
have you seen that.
I saw that one.
That's good.
was disappointed in it just because of how violent it was.
it was violent.
I try to get away from that.
My little boy, he loves ROBO COP.
that movie, fast forward it every time they come to the part where there is,
have you seen it?
The part where they're shooting (( mercy )) .
I don't like that.
that is horrible
the language on that's filthy.
I don't see why they have to do that,
knows language is there so they could just ignore it and,
use different words instead, I think.
I know.
think lately PRETTY WOMAN'S been my favorite.
I went and bought the video.
I've probably seen it about fifteen or twenty times.
my husband bought me, I think PRETTY IN PINK for my birthday.
With, a,
wait a second,
I will in a minute Kyle, .
That's okay.
he bought me PRETTY IN PINK.
Just a second.
you're glad you ain't got a four year old.
That's okay .
is the first time he's interrupted my phone calls.
I haven't seen PRETTY IN PINK,
Molly Ringwald.
Molly Ringwald? *
It was cute,
it wasn't,
I like the, SIXTEEN CANDLES, or sixteenth birthday or,
SIXTEEN CANDLES was the name of it.
that was so good.
Of course I was a teenager when I seen that
I loved it.
I haven't seen it either.
if you like love stories, it's sweet.
I do.
it's sweet,
it really is .
that's a tearjerker
it gets you,
it makes you feel really sorry for her.
it's hilarious too, especially with that, little guy in it.
boy next door,
he's sixteen.
it's a cute movie.
I can't remember his name.
He kind of looks like DOOGIE HOWSER.
I don't know.
Don't know either.
He's got curly blonde hair,
he just a little freckly, little boy.
Probably know him if I saw him.
if I could remember the name, I know you'd know his name, because he's played in a few movies.
I was just thinking another good one I saw not too long ago was, SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY.
I've heard about that
I can't remember it.
that's Julia Roberts' new movie.
Julia Roberts is good.
this one,
you know PRETTY WOMAN was kind of a light comedy and a romance,
this one was a lot more dramatic.
Wasn't it a murder mystery?
Y ,
sort of .
it was a mystery.
She disappeared from her who was abusing her.
one I wanted to see where on a Ferris wheel or something.
did that come on T V
did it come out in the,
it came out in the theater.
I think, around here, it's all ready quit playing.
know if it's still playing any where else.
Real good.
it was one of those that kept you on the edge of your seat.
I want to see that.
I seen the, previews for it on T V down here,
it's just been down here a couple weeks, I think.
we saw it, probably,
A month a ,
four or five months ago.
I know it hasn't been that long since I've seen the previews for it,
I wanted to see it.
Her husband was a, dark haired guy with a beard and moustache,
a ,
he shaved the beard off.
a real psycho in the movie.
I'd like to see that.
What about,
there was a,
we got one back here a while,
I want to see WAR OF THE ROSES too,
have you seen that?
Oh yeah,
didn't like it.
You didn't?
it was,
I didn't like the way it ended.
I know,
the only reason I know why it ended is on ARSENIO HALL one night, Christopher Reeves told,
I can't believe they killed them.
who was it
Christopher Reeve or Mike Douglas.
Might have been Michael Douglas. that starred in it. *
it was Michael Douglas.
Christopher Reeve wasn't in it at all?
Arsenio Hall is the one that jumped up and said that I can't believe they killed them
Christopher Reeve, or, Mike Douglas went after his throat, you dummy .
I know that they die,
I haven't told my husband.
We've both been wanting to see it.
it was, it was weird.
It was a different movie from anything I've ever seen.
(( )) we was, teasing, about, splitting our house down the middle .
Yeah .
They did that didn't they
they marked off routes that they could go or something .
that would be kind of hard for us,
we've only got one bathroom,
I don't know h , ,
We've got two bathrooms
actually, if he takes,
my house kind of looks like two trailers put together.
one bathroom is at the end of one side
one's in the middle of the other,
we could do it.
That wouldn't be too bad.
he could climb out the window .
Wh ,
every room leads to three rooms,
we can,
Get around.
you can get around .
You just can't go out the front door honey,
did you see FATAL ATTRACTION?
that's coming back, on too .
I know it's going to be on C B S Tuesday night
that's kind of it kind of bothered you, the way it ended and stuff.
That's kind of how WAR OF THE ROSES was.
WAR OF THE ROSES was funny
other times it was like it was just deadly serious,
it just left you with this kind of uneasy feeling,
Eerie feeling,
I want to see it though.
I'd like to see that and, THE NEVER ENDING STORY, came out on Disney this month, I think.
I wanted to see that.
I've heard about that
I don't know what it's about.
THE NEVER ENDING STORY?
It's a child's movie,
it's good,
I enjoyed it.
I love Disney movies.
I do too
they're some of the best that are made.
it's about this little boy who,
I think he's up in a attic, or some part of school.
He got locked in the school
he got scared,
he starts dreaming
he's saving the land of,
it's been so long since I've seen it.
is him flying this great big dog, this great big huge sheep dog sort of looking thing,
Oh go ,
it flies through the air.
he's trying to save the land from some, (( ooze )) .
it's really good,
it sounds ki ,
had, Fred Savage in it.
Did you see that movie with Fred Savage in it, though,
I don't think so.
he had,
it was THE PRINCESS BRIDE.
I didn't see that.
You didn't see that,
that was cute,
good one.
I like slapstick comedy.
So do I
a lot of times we'll go to rent a movie or something
you're not sure whether it will be any good or not
so sometimes we stick with the stuff we've heard more about than,
I heard,
a friend of mine told me she got NAKED GUN last night
she said that was hilarious.
we saw that,
coming out with a sequel to it.
Two and a half . *
It was funny.
It wa ,
I want to see that.
She said she rented it last night
said it was real good
WORKING GIRL is really good.
I seen that,
That was good.
was that with that blonde,
she pretended to be the boss or something.
I rented that one night by myself.
I was home alone.
Did you see HOME ALONE? .
I did,
just reminded me of that.
Did you like it?
There you go.
First question,
do you own your house?
we try.
it's a big mortgage in the sky
someday, maybe, we might even own it,
for all practical purposes, I guess we hold the mortgage .
Our name is on the till,
that implies ownership.
No one else has offered to pay for it.
That's right.
I would not object if anybody did.
really they could move right into the spare room .
had this one for five years now.
Before that we lived in Garland, probably about, four blocks away.
Liked the area, chose to stay inside of Spring Park.
It's a,
I don't know if you have been up here,
it is a residential homeowners,
there's a lot of, activities, a lot of pluses and common land.
we thought we were buying at the bottom of the market,
it could not possibly have gone any lower
we were wrong .
five years ago.
I think,
it bottom out about a later.
just recently, I would say, I would give it two years back, when it was, I think, bottomed out.
Oddly enough, two years,
think that,
maybe not in your area,
it was just different areas,
not this area.
this is about the,
That's a really nice area.
Besides, it's not Richardson. Is it?
It's still considered Garland.
It's, Richardson
hold on a second.
Paul, I can hear you perfectly, perfectly well,
I don't want to hear you.
You are being rude.
Whatever you ask or scream when I'm on the phone, the answer is no.
Do you understand?
How does that sound?
There you go.
Write that one down.
there I go.
It sounded good to me .
I hate to say how long that will last too.
this area up here is, all custom homes,
I don't think that many by the builder that built this house.
we were not
I think we are the third owners.
It was built by the architect for himself, who never moved into it. Who sold it to a couple who had no idea that homes ever needed upkeep.
caulking windows was a great mystery to them.
they just watched the water pour in on the carpet.
it's a Sharif Myneer Homes, if that means anything,
it did not really mean anything to me except,
I liked it.
kept thinking of Omar Sharif every time I saw that name somewhere,
He builds eight hundred thousand dollar houses now.
I think he got out of the lower end market.
And decided,
the houses here this class of housing never dropped below two hundred.
still I know that this one was built for two ninety nine, which is nowhere near what we paid for it.
I think somebody told me it's also on a creek side lot, heavily wooded off the golf course.
the guy around the corner is being transferred
he said, he did comparables that it's about eighty dollars,
let's see what,
I don't remember if he said it was sixty dollars a square foot ,
off the creek and eighty on the creek,
or, if it was eighty and a hundred.
Probably eighty.
I think it was sixty, eighty.
Sixty, eighty.
I think.
I know little house over here stuck in the middle of, the subdivision is, I think fifty five,
I think the high end is definitely, somewhere there .
try and think if it was a hundred dollars a square foot .
it could not be,
this house has around thirty four hundred square feet,
it would never sell for three hundred forty thousand dollars.
Just never.
maybe, that's pretty close to what it would have sold for, brand new,
that's pretty much what it was built for.
It's got an awful lot of nice things in it
it's going to be a long time, if ever, when nice things and really quality construction and all the other additional amenities are really, desirable.
It's seems like people go for square footage only now
Have you been back to the Perry Homes, back here?
the ones that look like brick houses ?
The one that looks like Monopoly apartments.
I think those are awful.
I'm sorry,
I just don't see the designer's,
I just see him as trying to squish as possible.
They are huge when you are inside them.
They are very spacious.
They are,
in one today.
It was forty two hundred square feet.
the house that we got is small enough so my husband and I,
there's just the two of us
the two cats, can yell at each other from one end to the other and be heard.
we thought that was important instead of getting swallowed up in something that
when you have kids, you like to be able to,
that's true.
send them some place where they can yell and you won't hear them.
I have been watching these houses go up
somebody was telling me,
I know somebody who lives back there,
I have always questioned the quality of construction
don't think they exceed more than twelve nails per house.
When you watch them go up, you are just amazed that they do not fall over.
it takes them something like, thirty days to complete a house.
that's amazing.
Right now, in fact, even as we speak, we are having a deck put on in back,
these guys are phenomenal.
they are doing such a terrific job back there,
you pay for it too,
really worth it.
They are putting in a deck,
a redwood deck,
it's just, they are doing such a fine, fine job.
We have got
I'm really excited about it,
three different levels of decking, because,
this lot slopes way back down
the house is built around the trees.
with these decking that a corporation and a large (( )) area for the trees to come up
it's real, real shady.
that's one of the few things that really, immediately pays back on return.
what I was going to tell you, these Perry Homes back there,
when the people from M C I come down
used to the Virginia area, metropolitan D C.
My God, they come down here and those houses, look the colonial look what the,
Looks like the George Town brownstone .
the idea of ever owning anything that has four thousand square feet in it, for less than two hundred twenty thousand dollars,
Must be a dream.
which is probably about what their equity is, that they got out of selling their house.
those things are selling like hot cakes.
one of the people that was living back there was telling me that there is his air conditioning bill, per month, last summer was in excess of five hundred dollars
a month.
I thought,
I can't (( )) ,
(( )) he was talking about how you keep up with the utilities here.
I was thinking, I know why your God damn bill is so high,
He has no insulation, probably.
it's because in those things.
What a trap.
Any yet,
show very well un , they show very well unless you have, lived in a lot of houses around the area,
And you ask the right questions and can research,
or looked at a lot of houses around here.
I think that makes a big difference.
this area
everything that I have been saying,
I do too.
says that it's,
I think if we had to sell now, we could come close to breaking even .
still, it's worth it for the area and for the school and things like that .
think that Plano has really done a fantastic job.
at least their plans good.
I was,
maybe you saw in the paper this morning that, they've had some problems with,
With the plastic.
the recycling on plastic,
I thought that was most interesting.
thought it was sad that started out as a good program. *
But then people started dumping trash.
and the wrong objects in there,
that concerned me, that people were using it as a way to get rid of things they just didn't want to set at the curb or take to the
That's right.
I guess that's going to happen.
too bad that people have to ruin,
a good part thing.
a really good effort,
that's right,
I was thinking about were, many, many years ago when we were first married and he was in graduate school in Missouri, I went,
(( it have )) been like nineteen sixty seven or sixty eight,
went to a meeting,
one of speakers at the meeting was a woman who was recycling
she was from Saint Louis,
she had this fantastic, family effort recycling,
she was dividing her colored glass and her plastics,
and her aluminum,
I thought wow, one person is doing that,
thought was it's a shame,
it's wonderful that she's doing it
wouldn't it be nicer if we all did it,
her effort would have really, really, been a good example for all of us.
we were just sort of talking about it at the time.
here we are,
now we're doing it on a,
Doing it .
city wide basis communities.
it's wonderful that we've come that far, I think
What did she do with,
was she like a group that was doing it,
was she doing it on her own,
I think she was,
what did she do with the,
I was trying to remember,
it seems to me that she was doing it on her own, and living in Saint Louis,
there were places where she could actually take her,
things herself,
it wasn't, something that was being picked up
I think she was encouraging other people to do it if they would.
I remember her saying yes, I have a trash can for this and a trash can for that, and a trash can for the other thing,
I thought wow, wonderful, that somebody (( )) does that.
have to really want to do it, though.
This is,
what you recycle,
do plastics and the,
and the aluminum,
and the glass and the paper.
of course, then, you try to buy right too,
Sure you do,
a lot of our neighbors say, , you have to rinse out this and you have to make sure it's that, *
and you have to,
we had neighbors that complained when we got the new garbage cans.
Isn't that amazing?
I thought what are you complaining about,
when you're only going to get picked up once a month,
or once a week
People, I don't know, they find fault in everything, rather than say this is a good effort.
Rather than work with it.
I don't know.
what you're saying,
kind of people like that
it's for everybody's benefit.
sure it is. *
maybe we don't realize it in our lifetime,
have to think grandchildren,
and great grandchildren
it's on down the line.
what kind of quality of life are you leaving them?
I have a real concern about that.
I agree.
We've never had much trash,
I was raised in a big family,
Gene's family wasn't big,
they weren't rich ,
they had recycle.
the fu ,
they didn't,
they just used things,
they didn't,
throw things away,
before they were used up
I know,
I guess I got a good example from my mother,
she was always very, very conscientious about recycling things,
she is to this day,
I mean, she'll even,
if she,
for instance, would take the waxed paper out of a cereal box and use that for, when she made cookies,
it would go on that
if she sandwich paper or something, she'd use that.
recycles everything.
I have done the same thing.
I recycle zip lock bags and,
things like that.
My kids get the biggest kick out of that.
Although, they do the same thing .
I think they give me a hard time,
I think they know that that's,
They've picked up the hab ,
it's the right way .
they do,
when they actually get out away from the home,
and have to do their own buying of things,
they appreciate how much it costs to do that.
they say, hey, mom used to do this and
dad used to do that,
That's right.
pretty soon figuring out that's not such a bad way *
to go. *
That's true, yeah. *
I don't know,
wonder you instill in people the necessity for doing just a little bit extra make this whole thing work. the extra like washing out bottles and jars, or the extra of actually, making sure that, you take stuff over to,
some people because the stuff isn't picked up at the curbside,
I think golly Moses, you just do your part.
people are not,
you can't be waited on all your life and expect things to always
is what concerns me.
over in Europe they don't have the kind of waste we do here.
that's right.
got to be in a country,
even Mexico,
you don't see things thrown away,
like we do here.
what we throw away a ransom, a king's,
ransom to most people,
even to people in our country,
who scavenge for food
think you have to get into a period of need,
bef ,
you can't tell a person that lives in a hundred, two hundred, three hundred thousand dollar house that have all that they need,
and all that they could want
that they've got to be careful.
why I thought Jimmy Carter was never
people didn't like him.
he tried to say,
turn off the lights ,
conserve this, do that.
do those little things,
that make a lot of difference,
nobody wanted to hear it.
I think you're right, though.
I think that it has to really hit home before,
the message sometimes.
you have to grow up with it being in your life,
before the message really takes hold sometimes.
I don't know,
just really interesting to me how now more aware of things I am used to be,
a few years ago.
go U T D, cafeteria for lunch sometimes
they use styrofoam plates, when they wouldn't,
need to use styrofoam plates.
I think to myself crazy.
I wonder if, maybe I need to bring that to someone's attention,
I'm seeing more and more of that,
I think it's, just McDonald's effort to reduce the number styrofoam, boxes that they use,
for hamburgers and stuff,
I think is a example, that even,
industry is willing to do it.
think the big question too we're looking at is, would you be willing to pay more for a product,
so it can be recycled.
I think coming to, I'm sure.
do we have to wait until all the landfills,
are full and there is nowhere else to put our garbage.
That's right,
I don't,
with the mind set of the American public, I think what they will do is start paying Mexico
to take our trash. *
(( That doesn't )) ,
harmful. *
wouldn't surprise me.
they will go dump it out in the middle of some ocean.
That's the way we solve problems.
I know it,
it's sad.
Hal, crime like in Dallas?
it depends where in Dallas you are.
There are certainly parts of town I would not want to live in.
it's the situation
it is very location dependent
there are parts of town here where, when they talk about the nightly gunfire.
in Baltimore we have similar.
I live on the outskirts of Baltimore
we live right outside the city
our neighborhood is pretty much working class people, though I'm in graduate school,
I live here because it's close to the university.
we have,
really funny,
the only crime we really see is, just the kids being malicious.
I think most of that is because their parents aren't around.
That make sense?
what they call the latchkey children.
something like that.
No one's,
fathers are just missing,
there's consistency there in the home or whatever.
There's no one to tell them what's right and what's wrong,
upper middle class
I think our,
not that we don't have a certain amount of local problems
huh .
on the other hand, we get the, affect of city
the main crimes within the suburb here are theft crimes.
A small number of assaults,
if we have one murder a year
that's probably as many,
you go into Dallas and they are, unfortunately
having murders
at a rate greater than one a day.
I think about the same in Baltimore.
Though, Washington, I think is, close by
they experience a lot more.
I think they definitely have more problems the area.
do you think can prevent crime?
the thing is, I don't,
it's one of those things where, if you're a grad student you can appreciate the statistics on
Unfortunately there are often these correlations that are inverse of what they should be like, wherever there are more, criminals, there are more policemen
that's which came first.
Yeah .
on the other side of it is
basically problem is society
and the society's views
since now I'm in my mid forties, when I was in grad school or when I was an undergraduate growing up in a more rural area
I thought, crime reasonably unknown
and just the situation that's developed with drug *
I think, *
aspect of,
the pushers, the dealers and the addicts,
I think, I agree with you there.
it just was not, something back in the sixties that
I even had to worry about.
I think, that there is a lot in the society where things have changed,
it's effected all of us.
I think definitely one of the main problems.
mayor in, Baltimore is one of the people that goes on national television and says they should, legalize drugs. *
Because it would eliminate violence and the, the market, I guess, hidden market of the drugs and everything that goes along with it. *
That make sense?
He's one of the big proponents of that.
He gets on national television says that,
it's, ,
he was a District Attorney before, and a prosecutor before mayor.
that's a really stran ,
it's a different viewpoint.
in a sense I have real mixed feelings on that
it comes a bit from the angle that the,
it would certainly be an interesting test
the other side of it, to me,
What happens if we lose worse.
y ,
the other side is that unfortunately some of the down side,
I think if I look back fifty or a hundred years I'd say, back then there were the opium dens
the thing is, if somebody ruined their life, society didn't try to then save themselves from it,
they let this person who had ruined it
or whatever.
they probably became weakened physically and other things to the point that their life expectancy was real short,
now we tend to believe somewhere in the health care system otherwise,
we need to take care of people even if they have, physically ruined themselves.
they have induced it themselves.
that's true.
to me that's,
would certainly like to see a real test making drugs real cheap
to see if when you make them available people then don't use them.
I think
they did that in Alaska. actually, Alaska just recently legalized marijuana. *
heard results or anything like that,
I never,
plus, true, it really couldn't be a good test because Alaska's so different than every other part of the country.
was interesting,
crime is one of those things that's,
don't know,
the drug culture,
see it with the kids in the neighborhood just stealing things, not thinking anything wrong with it.
of course, I'm a baby of the old school
bothers me from the fifties on,
not that I'd remember that much
from the fifties
basically we have so much more of the something for nothing mentality.
that's true.
That's true.
We worked hard for everything.
That's very true.
in the,
there were the sixty four thousand dollar question shows in the fifties,
nowadays, there's so much on TV people seem to have the idea they can get something for nothing.
Of course
I work for lawyers a lot
I see, unfortunately, we have this whole mentality that somehow there are these pots of money out there that you can sue somebody and, there's a million dollars you can have
for mental duress or whatever.
Yeah .
the other thing that bothers me in the crime is the,
in Europe, they seem to have mentality,
drunk driving is a good one,
is that people are well indoctrinated in their society that drunken driving is unacceptable.
if you're going to drink, and you may drink, you better have your designated driver.
In this country, and for example with alcohol or with drugs we don't seem to understand how to handle it as a society to say under these circumstances, but if you step outside these bounds, the punishment is extreme. *
And we mean it.
the drunk driving has caught on.
I really,
my father was hit by a drunk driver when I was in high school
was an awful three years afterwards. of recovery
and the difficulties and, everything we did
the guy went free because this was twelve years ago
thirteen years ago,
there was no,
his father was even, the, police chief of the town.
there was no repercussion at all. other than insurance,
he was uninsured.
our insurance paid for everything,
it was a very difficult time
later, my brother and I were picked up by the police for questioning because this fellow had bought new car
somebody had taken a baseball bat to it
and broke all his windows and his lights and dented it everywhere,
they came and questioned us.
that kind of shows how our attitude toward drinking
and driving was, misplaced
for years
Yep. *
was an acceptable social behavior.
very much so.
are some important points.
your city have for gun control if anything?
Maryland is one of the most,
we just voted in, here in the state of Maryland.
the weather hot
it's been humid.
I don't remember a year in a long time that the humidity has stayed up this high
it's not really late into the summer,
humidity has hung around all of June.
Are you native to this area?
I grew up in Michigan,
in Texas for fifteen years. *
I know the summers get hot
it certainly,
this humidity has just really hung on there.
it seemed like, last year was so strange having all those heavy, heavy rains in April
this year we really didn't have heavy rains until May.
Kind of like pushed the season back a little farther
now it's kind of lingering with kind of still a bit of humidity
it just tried to rain,
I was coming in from my car just a few minutes ago
it was trying to rain which
seems strange to have it raining in July.
Normally we don't have too much, humidity rainy time when it's past June.
that's right,
that's right.
I can remember it not,
it's really August that it happens.
You get those great big cracks in the ground where it's been so dry
it just gets so dry
the earth opens up.
I can remember the first year I moved here
it didn't rain,
I moved here in late August
it didn't rain from August until December
I went home and told it just doesn't rain in Texas.
it was great after growing up in Michigan day was cloudy,
almost every day was cloudy
sort of forget how much it did rain
coming here and then it didn't rain,
it was just wonderful.
lived in, Ohio mainly.
I lived in, Pontiac just a little while before I came
down here
so many times when you were trying to schedule outdoor activities, you just never knew if it was going to be a go or not because of the weather.
It might rain on your little parade.
That's right,
that's right.
here it was like, pretty much you could schedule some activity outside anytime
you really didn't have too much of a chance of it getting rained out.
You could pretty much do whatever you wanted to do.
That's right.
What part of Michigan were you living in?
I grew up in Dearborn
which is a suburb Detroit.
You probably know where that is because I know where Pontiac is,
What brought you down here?
a teaching job.
you teach in Plano schools?
for a while,
I'm two children,
Okay .
New career.
New career
that kind of,
I had been down here to visit
I (( )) school and said hey, let's, find a place that has a nice job
that's how it worked out.
I think a lot of people were, leaving Michigan all about the time I came here in the early eighties
it seemed like it was almost a mass exodus.
You know, little joke about, will the last person leaving Michigan just turn out the light .
it's a nice place,
that's a nice place, though.
said I lived in, the Pontiac.
I didn't live in the city of Pontiac,
I lived to the west of it.
I forget county,
where all the lakes are around there.
sort of.
I lived in an apartment complex on one of the lakes.
It was real close to where I worked.
It was only four miles to work
it was wonderful being on the lake like that.
in the summer, you feel like you're, on a vacation all the time because you're right on a lake
everybody's, out enjoying the water and such,
in the winter time the lakes froze over,
you could still kind of go sledding and such out there
I thought it was just really neat to be out there on all those lakes.
There's lots of really small ones out there.
maybe a mile, two long.
That's enough to, do some boating
That's right.
it was lots of fun.
That's right.
Whitmore is the only one I have real memories of. *
Which is,
toward Ann Arbor,
it's probably out in that direction,
that's the only one I probably could name
after all these years
it was, just lots of little lakes
of course, it was, a little more expensive to live on the lake,
I just thought that was grand.
I think a lot of people didn't really know that there were all those lakes out there unless you were from that area and kind of spotted them,
there was quite a few lakes all around there.
you were living on an island
there was so much water around where I was.
(( I said )) I wasn't close to downtown Pontiac,
I was way out to the west maybe four or five miles the city limits
it was really nice out there.
We had, Pine Knob
to go skiing
and stuff.
there were things around there.
Really was pretty nice.
that where they have a summer music festival there, too?
in the summertime they have musicals there
in the winter time they make snow and have a ski slope.
That's right,
that's right.
I know, we used to,
didn't do a lot of it,
we did.
We did,
those are always fun.
Alpine, was it Alpine was another ski slope
that we went to,
It was nice.
I always tell people that in the winter to,
my dad would kind of bank up the snow in the backyard and turn the hose on, make a pond in the backyard for us.
we probably did some ice skating on it,
then it
it would melt or whatever and get pretty uneven
We used to have a
Christmas time, some of our relatives would come up from Alabama,
I think most times we would have snow around Christmas
the kids when they were young would just go nuts.
they were from Alabama where it never snowed
they just had a grand time watching the snow and getting out there and playing in it, eternally.
If only it would make nice snow here in Texas, we'd be okay at Christmas time.
My first winter here,
came down in, early eighty two
there was just a freak snowfall early one morning in December Christmas.
It lasted only a few hours,
by noon it was gone.
I remember getting up and somebody telling me, hey, better wait to go to work because the roads are all, snow .
I was laughing, going yeah, right, that's a good practical joke,
ha ha.
They said, no really, there's snow
there was, but a very short time
the weather got warm so quick
it just melted it all away.
I know.
when we get an ice storm, that's not too much fun.
that's not fun either,
just as soon have all the slushy snow on the streets than have the ice on the streets
we have,
our house is kind of on a little hill,
we get the sled out
the kids go down on the sleds when it's icy,
they just go down the ice.
if it's cold, we say, okay, out you go.
I think we must be the only people on the block that make use of that cold weather and get out there.
I think it's fun,
even the couple of ice storms I've gotten out there in my ski pants or something and still just been out and enjoying it a little bit.
sometimes the ice is pretty bad,
if you get on the, the, grassy kind of part, you get a little bit of traction, not slip and fall.
I really haven't seen any movies lately,
when the computer picked this one, I was a little bit surprised,
I think I haven't been to the movie theater here in about, six months,
the last movies that I've seen were probably on video.
we rent a lot of videos
Yeah .
we saw,
I have two little babies
we saw one movie recently
that was THE TERMINATOR
movie, which I didn't like (( after all )) .
now seen THE TERMINATOR movie,
that's kind of blood and guts, isn't it.
I don't particularly care for that sort of stuff.
I don't either.
on all advertisements Arnold Schwarzenegger says he doesn't kill anybody in the movie.
He doesn't.
He maims them .
he maims them pretty good, doesn't he?
I think he shoots off their knee caps for the most part.
In the movie.
saw, SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY.
I haven't seen that one yet.
I saw it,
couple weeks ago I rented it and, watched it
pretty disappointed in it
was told by several people that it's pretty scary and intense
I was pretty disappointed in it.
it's a good movie,
I guess that they built me up too much.
For my expectations in it there.
With all the commercials
and everything.
I haven't,
that's one we want to see.
want to see, DANCES WITH WOLVES.
we haven't seen that one yet, either.
I haven't seen it either,
I've heard that it's real long. That it's a good movie, but it's long, like three hours.
what I heard, too.
we've got to get it at a time when we can put our kids to bed and stay up late
That's right.
to watch it .
That's right.
We saw, movie with, Sylvester Stallone, OSCAR.
Supposed to be debut in comedy.
Which was an interesting movie, but not very funny.
I know my daughter saw that
she liked it
Did she?
Yeah .
an amusing movie.
It j , ,
I guess maybe it would have been better if we'd have been at the theater
as opposed to, just at the house watching it no one else around.
of course, I get to watch all these movies like LOOK WHO'S TALKING and TALKING, TOO
I have a ten year old
watch a lot of movies around that category,
can watch .
My son just turned two
THE LITTLE MERMAID is now our favorite movie.
We seen THE LITTLE MERMAID, too.
LITTLE MERMAID and PETER PAN
I think his two favorites that we've got .
good Disney movies fixing to come out on video, SHIPWRECKED.
hear that was coming out.
it's fixing to come out on video
boy, I can't think of the other one that's fixing to come out.
they just had
THE RESCUERS movie
that was a Disney movie, wasn't it.
I think I heard that out.
sit still for the whole movie, yet,
he likes listen to the music and stuff if there's a lot of that
I'm glad to know that there's somebody else out there that doesn't get to go to the movie theater .
I tell you, ever s ,
kids are just small babies
I tell you, we really want to go
a lot
there's so much out on video now, that it's almost,
the movie comes out quicker than you can go see it.
That's right. *
they go to the dollar movies.
huh .
That seems to happen.
I noticed that DANCES WITH WOLVES was playing at the, Granada Theater.
someone said that was a lot of fun to go do.
You can have dinner and everything while you watch the movie.
I thought that might be kind of fun to do.
that does sound fun.
of course, you need a baby sitter for that .
I'd really like to get out to the movies more often.
Course, it's so expensive, now, too
that you can't hardly afford it.
know we get discount tickets
where my husband works,
other than that it just seems like it's so expensive.
the popcorn and everything else,
you almost can't afford to do it.
That's right.
No matter what.
Although we did actually get,
we went on vacation couple months ago,
we got to go see WHAT ABOUT BOB?
That was kind of a funny movie with, Richard Dreyfuss and Bill Murray.
That was fun.
I don't think that I've ever heard of that movie.
Bob is his patient
Bob follows him on vacation.
one where they burn down the house or something
huh .
the house explodes?
that's the one.
Another movie that I want to see if it ever comes out on video so I can see it without my daughter around is,
I just forgot the title of it.
. it's supposed to be a real scary one .
another one that I've seen.
I saw,
I can't remember the title of it, either .
Must have left an impression.
How would you feel about sending an elderly family member to a nursing home?
I don't feel very good about it,
I think that at some times it can be the right thing to do.
We sent my grandfather to a nursing home at the point when he was really incapable of caring for himself anymore.
He actually died a few months after that,
at least in retrospect, it was the right thing to do
he was either in a nursing home or a hospital
or something else that he would have been spending most of his time in those days.
what type of recommendations did you have when you decided where to place him?
wanted to get into a Mennonite nursing home which is very popular and hard to get into and had a ten year waiting list
we wound up just choosing Mennonite nursing home that was easier to get into.
it was even Mennonite related,
it was actually not a particularly great nursing home.
Mostly the thing was that it was available when we needed it,
because he suddenly got sick
the convenience,
and needed to be put in.
what do you think?
My grandmother lived with us, until August,
we made the decision to put her in a nursing home.
She has leukemia
family and her regular doctors and everybody she trusted and knew was in Dayton, and were several thousand miles away
I made the decision to put her in a nursing home,
my sister being on the other end found one that she could have what was called an independent living facility.
She had her own little room and didn't have to share it with anyone and could bring in her own chair and T V set
that's important
I would say.
other major factor is that she needs blood transfusions every week to ten days, and would have to be hospitalized a day or two,
in this facility they can do it right there from her own room
she didn't have to be transported back and forth.
she's been there since August the thirteenth and seems to have adjusted pretty well.
It's not her favorite place to be in.
She'd much rather be here with me.
when it got to the point I was spending more time at the hospital with her,
I've got little children here who needed me here
Right, that, *
she needed somebody to watch her twenty four hours a day.
that becomes difficult then.
She was falling down and hemorrhaging
all kinds of physical problems,
it just became too much for me to handle,
even though I would have liked to have had her stay, with her health being what it was she couldn't
we tried to convince my grandfather to live with us at several points during the last few years of his life,
he was essentially too proud and too independent
so that even though his heart was getting incredibly weak and his knees were going bad
he lived in his own house as long as he could
he was living alone, had an upstairs apartment, could barely make it up the steps
to the top without a great deal of pain,
eventually things just went too far
he allowed himself to be put into a nursing home.
I think sometimes when people get to be a certain age, other people have to kind of help them make decisions.
It sure wouldn't have been Granny's decision to leave us and go back to a nursing home,
she's accepted it real well now
right that the children have some responsibility, too, to their parents and such, to help decide what's the right thing.
we enjoyed
having her here,
we feel she's much safer where she is now.
She still continues to fall,
when she does a nurse is right there to help her
I know she's eating the right things,
her doctor's right there where he can come in and check on her,
It became dangerous for us to keep transporting her back and forth in the car because she was so wobbly and needed a walker or a wheel chair
I think she'll adjust,
while I was waiting for you to connect, thought of a couple of menus,
I decided it had to be in it, informal or not.
if it's informal I'd probably choose something, just like hamburgers or steaks out on the grill *
because that's a lot of fun, especially this time of year where it's so nice out. *
if it was formal I'd probably go with something like a chicken breast or lasagna or something.
into formal dinner parties,
I see.
I'd probably go with lasagna, a green salad, and garlic bread.
what do you use for cookbooks?
I have a PILLSBURY cookbook I got when I was married,
it's kind of the bible of cooking
for me.
Then I have some from church that are more family recipes that are more useful .
budget cookbooks,
of course, you get a lot from when you're growing up.
I cook a lot the same my mom did,
of course I've added several
different recipes,
what you serve or what would you ,
I think we come different backgrounds,
that's good .
it diff ,
have different perspectives that you are.
I find the JOY OF COOKING to be a remarkably useful book
fall back on,
it has almost everything in it.
on the other hand, it's not very inspiring,
it's a good reference when you need to dig something up.
What we've found very useful is a book called THE THIRTY MINUTE COOKBOOK,
I think that's the title, by Marion Burroughs
which has recipes which allegedly can all be prepared in thirty minutes, the whole meal
that would be wonderful in these times .
find that the cutting up of the food, and all that really makes it take a little longer than thirty minutes.
either they're really fast or , *
they're interesting
they're interesting menus, combinations that nobody thought of.
What's one of your favorites?
the one I had most recently one that,
describes as Jim Beard's favorite, summer menu, or something,
it consisted grilled kielbasa sausage
a potato salad with olive oil, and some tomatoes that had been chopped up with onions and curry powder and probably some yogurt was in there.
sounds too good.
that's, certain you can do in thirty minutes.
there are a whole lot of,
would recommend you look at that book
that THIRTY MINUTE COOKBOOK.
if you're a busy person.
THIRTY MINUTE COOKBOOK.
That sounds fun.
I find a lot of the cookbooks you buy over the counter ask for really strange ingredients, or things I don't keep on hand all the time
I have young children,
our budget's set, at this time,
I want to use simple recipes that
I have things on hand,
I don't have to run to the store to buy or look for something I haven't heard of .
That's why sometimes I shy away from, more of a traditional cookbook
it was interesting talking to you.
It's a fun subject.
Food is one of my favorite things too.
Anything else you wanted to add?
you had said dinner,
what would I put together for a formal dinner.
had some friends over as recently as Saturday night
the inspiration was a combination of Julia Child for the dessert, a chocolate mousse recipe
that's good.
and a sort of (( )) cookbook which has a recipe for a thing called chicken marabella
which is this wonderful thing you can do,
basically you're chicken open pan, having marinated it first
my wife did this part so I don't remember all the details
marinated in olive oil and some seasoning, and cooked with some olives prunes,
there's a little bit of brown sugar in there,
it bakes up
it's a delicious thing,
it's easy
That sounds good.
That sounds really good.
I'm sorry,
I just love ,
It sounds like you guys are a little more gourmet than I am,
I'm pretty simple right now,
maybe a little more leisure time
to do it.
I don't know,
I have little ones
won't eat, too many different foods
right now.
I found my kids were very frustrating when they were little
in terms of their tastes.
there again, sometimes it was easy,
canned ravioli was,
one of their favorites, and so it was easy to
open a can of ravioli.
Spaghetti's a pretty staple every other week or so
it goes a long ways too.
nice talking to you Cheryl.
All righty.
Talk to you later maybe.
Do you have children?
we have two sons.
one's a freshman in college
one's a sophomore in high school.
I have one that's a freshman in high school, a daughter. And a son who's a sixth grader in a middle school.
I spend most of my time carpooling .
Oh .
The story of my life .
Yes .
My kids are involved in sports.
My daughter has played basketball for six years,
my son plays football.
my rule is that they can't play a sport the same time of the year ,
because there's just not enough of me to drive them around everywhere.
We did spend a lot of time,
it really helped when the, older one was old enough to get his license and could,
drive around by himself although that brought in a whole set of problems.
I know,
I know.
The insurance.
I, fo ,
for one thing.
our two totally different interests of,
was not much, overlap as such.
older one at all into, sports for the most part.
he participated
band scouts were his two big things.
My son,
is in both band and scouts too.
the, younger one is, the sports one
whatever season it is playing,
although football is really his favorite .
we spend a lot of time, carpooling trying to be, up as much as possible with anything do.
we also (( didn't time with them
just family time.
we had a,
at a fairly young age we started teaching them to play games and card games and so forth.
we didn't, do it as much or as often as, I would have liked to.
I would like to do that family and,
and some T V watching.
What about you?
We found this Oriental (( tile )) game called (( Mah jongg )) .
heard of that.
Have you?
I've played it.
it's really fun.
one of my neighbors moved here from Memphis
a lot of them played it,
she started a group going in the neighborhood
my kids wanted to learn how to play it
it's more fun with four people.
it's a game that none of their friends know how to play,
they both enjoy it.
if they want to play, they have to play with mom and dad.
we play that a lot of them,
we like to go miniature golfing and to movies.
We have family that lives outside of the state
we go visit both sets of grandparents take car trips.
so do we.
my husband and son go camping
with scouts mostly.
My daughter I hate camping so we go shopping.
that just kind of works out real well.
I'm a writer by profession
my daughter enjoys writing too,
a lot of times, she and I will travel to writers conferences together.
that's neat.
we've never had anything
like that.
that gives us special time together too.
she's on the yearbook staff and things like that
I can help her with that
she gives me ideas for my writing too
things are different me and my children than when I was growing up.
I grew up on a farm, in Iowa,
the whole family was around whole time.
then what my father did obvious to me
helped out with it.
although I have brought my boys see where I work, it's not that easy,
certainly not at all common,
just don't really have that same idea,
whole different, kind of thing there then,
My husband has taken us to work with him,
we still don't know what he does.
we just say he travels a lot.
that kind of covers it.
that makes it hard though in terms of, family time with,
with him.
I've been lucky in that respect that I travel too much (( )) .
He's been on temporary duties where he's been gone nine months.
those are the real killers.
If he's just gone,
he's gone three weeks right now
mild compare to the big ones,
do the carpooling handle whatever needs to be done.
something major,
always needs to be done.
you just have handle it until he gets home .
hopefully he won't have too many surprises when he gets home.
let's see.
As far as I'm ,
what gets you?
the thing I think that annoys me the most is, young children, a baby in the house
inevitably as soon as they're asleep, someone calls on the phone trying to sell me something.
I think that, that is probably the most aggravating .
it invades my time.
I'm the one that pays for the phone.
if I want to buy something, I'll take the initiative go find it,
that just really does aggravate me.
what do you think?
that's exactly the kind of thing I would have said.
Although in my case it's my wife and I both work,
we come home
just as we're preparing dinner or eating dinner
the phone rings
it's one solicitation call after another
Your time
like you say, very annoying
do we let this happen.
market seems to just be growing, too.
guess enough people are not speaking out.
I'm not speaking out, that's for sure.
I just get aggravated about it.
if you could legislate something, what would you legislate?
I really don't know.
not into , heavy government of a lot of different areas,
don't know.
do particularly find it annoying.
I'm really not sure.
I haven't given that a lot of thought it go, *
to be,
it seems to me that we should have the ability to designate with the phone company that we don't want to receive calls like that. *
the people making these calls would be obliged to
Identify themselves, yeah.
that they're going to call against this list of people who don't want to be called.
that would be a good
an interesting way,
way, those who want it can have it
those who don't want it, don't have to have it.
Sort of like an unlisted number where you haven't gone to the trouble of enlisting yourself.
Except even unlisted numbers aren't safe now because they have these things just sort of dial through all the numbers.
is that right?
that's interesting.
they just get everybody.
do wish that it would stop on my end
because seems to happen at the worst possible moments.
guess the next one door to door
I don't mind the children when they're selling things for school.
I have kids
that's just kind of
Yeah .
part of it
when it's adults selling a variety of things and especially when men arrive at about ten o'clock in the morning
makes you not feel particularly safe
it's annoying as well.
people may in fact be just looking to an unoccupied house to rob.
don't know,
find myself being abrupt and a little bit ruder I might normally be
I do feel like it's invasion of my space.
What about these telephone callers. Sometimes they're door to door but usually they're telephone callers want you to basically help them fill out a questionnaire. *
I've never quite understood the purpose of that.
I think these people were hired from different sources.
Just be ,
therefore, there's no one answer.
Just a survey.
they never say they're really working for or
what, what questions are,
There have been a couple of times when whatever the subject was, I guess caught my interest and I went along with it
there have been several times when I just said, I just really don't have the time,
Yeah .
to deal with it at that moment.
I don't get too many of those.
Yeah .
I've had just a few.
Yeah .
generally someone's trying to sell me something
sometimes just the lead in to a sales pitch
Other times it's, wasting your time
to collect the data they want for their
marketing purpose.
For which, if they would just pay me enough money
I would be willing to consider.
That's right.
a dollar isn't it,
I also sort of worry sometimes people giveaway personal information.
the call comes they, sort of seductive, to,
somebody is asking me my opinion on all of these things,
I start answering
go down a path
you don't know where it's going to end.
In fact, you don't even know revealed *
That's true.
This isn't, not be used against you,
it could
you just never know, I guess.
that seems to be something that really be outlawed.
Because it's subject to abuse
Asking for information
I can't really see that,
I think nothing else, they ought to spend money for a postage stamp
when it arrives at your house, I,
what kind of house do you live in?
we live in brick home in far north Dallas
it's, four bedrooms and three and a half baths and swimming pool in the back
It's about thirty five hundred square feet.
it sounds like ours are pretty similar.
I live in one,
I don't have a swimming pool.
mine's about twenty seven hundred square foot.
the four bedrooms
all the rest of it sounds just alike.
I think it's pretty much typical for this area.
It is.
Have you been living there very long?
I've been in the house
I'm in here right now about twelve and a half years.
you've been there longer.
We built this one about,
six years
six and a half years ago,
we subcontracted it out ourselves.
We bought
the lot and, had an architect draw the plans based on our specifications
we subbed it out,
we've been here a little over six years now. And
have really enjoyed it because
I bet you,
we built what we wanted to have to live in.
My husband got his big garage.
a three car garage, that he has a big work area in
he likes to rebuild cars and redo engines
he has all the work space he needs.
that sounds interesting.
I bet he's enjoyed having it that way
some ,
kind of hard to find one prebuilt that those specifications.
It is,
that's why we decided to build.
We looked
at things that were already, built
large, it seemed like the garages were small even if they were three car garages which is
then, most
what we have.
of them don't have a three car garage.
They're kind of rare.
we put a three car garage in.
even if they had three car garages, they didn't have a work space.
All of it was taken up with just car space.
he has a big landing area that's between where the cars are in the garage and where the house starts
that he can work on.
just got a two car garage,
my husband's got a big space in between cars are and the house, where he has a big work shop, workbench and everything.
sounds like our husbands have similar interests.
mine does not work on cars,
he just piddles on this and that.
I see.
he likes to have a spot to keep all of piddling things.
that's nice that it's not in your house.
It really is.
they have a lot of things of their own,
wouldn't mind having,
I at one time was going to fix up when one of my daughters left, a bedroom to where I had a room to just put all of my craft stuff and
sewing machine and all that kind of stuff,
I don't know,
it ended up I got some furniture back that one of them had moved out or something.
I didn't end up with my vacant room like I had thought I would.
we still have son and daughter in college that come home.
the other room we use as a guest bedroom because my husband's family come.
His parents come
also the kids have friends who come
and stay
it seems like it's always used as a bedroom.
I still,
all three of my daughters are married,
but, I don't know,
I just still have need for the four bedrooms just having company from time to time.
some of them coming back home and things,
I understand .
we've got grandchildren now,
when they come, they have to have a place.
That's true
you don't want them to not be able to come because there's no room.
That's right,
you sure don't.
At times I keep thinking, though, that might be kind of nice.
reached that point yet.
I've heard people say that.
my middle son is engaged,
my oldest son has been going with the same girl for a while.
He's out of college
and has a good job,
he could afford to get married
but, is not engaged yet,
my daughter's been going with the same boy for a while,
she's still in college
we're just as happy for her to finish
her education first.
I don't blame you for that.
what she plans to do.
I hope so.
I have the three girls
we ended up with four grandsons.
ho ho.
little boys are around the house
A whole new world.
a whole lot more than girls.
I enjoy them coming, but for short doses .
I can understand.
It feels,
after they've been here ten minutes, they have already explored the entire house,
they know everything.
they're fun.
you're all back to the safety catches and the whole nine yards or either watching them every minute.
I just watch them.
put things up when my kids were little
I haven't with them.
I try to teach them not to get into things.
that's the same thing that I did.
I hope I'll be able to do the same with grandchildren.
I think that once you do that, your children kind of develop the same attitudes.
At least my daughters have.
They try to teach theirs not to get into things instead of having to put everything up.
it's worked pretty well.
I don't really think anything's been broken.
Every now and then we have to kind of go and say, now don't bother this ,
huh .
all in all, they mind pretty well.
I guess most of the hou ,
d ,
what kind of roof does your house have?
Here I'm getting off the subject.
we have,
All right.
I've never done it before,
I guess that's all I have to do, right .
I guess so.
I've been called several times,
I my number,
they kept saying you have the invalid code
I found out that my new phone wasn't working right.
Oh .
this is the first time I've even done it.
I wonder how long it's going to be on for.
I think five minutes is the max.
this whole thing, like for two months or something,
do you know?
I don't know.
back to crime,
I guess we're supposed to talk about that.
They say what aspect are you worried about,
I think at this point, I for one am worried about every aspect .
especially, you, since you're in the same metroplex,
there's so much going on here.
I think the drive by shootings are getting to be so common, that's really something you got to protect yourself from.
that, and in the schools, too
I know.
starting to put metal detectors in,
Have they done that in Garland?
not that I'm aware of.
I just heard, last week at that one school, they started putting them in because there was that one shooting
we had a vice principal shot at here
Is that right?
last year school grounds after school.
the one boy killed himself a few years ago, grade school,
these kids don't have any trouble getting a hold of guns in any
Not at all. *
in any neighborhood, doesn't seem like.
it's kind of scary to think, you send your child to school
you wonder if he's going to get shot.
we didn't have to worry about that before.
I know .
What next?
I know,
it's getting,
it's been out of hand, I think, for a while,
it just continues to get worse.
we can't really depend on the police to solve all this,
they just can't do it.
I think it goes all the way back to the break up of the family
to a certain extent
how we going to bring that back together.
I thi ,
I agree,
I think that's where it stems from, is that and, you've got women that are working nowadays
that aren't home with the children
that may impact it as well.
I think so,
then there's a drop in, the training of morals, really,
young kids you read about, just doesn't bother them to kill someone at all
I think
they don't think twice about it.
I think years past maybe our criminals had a little more morals,
wouldn't kill somebody in cold blood.
Either that or I don't know if it happened and it wasn't as highly publicized as it is now, or
I think it was just rare,
I really do.
My mother, she's seventy four now.
was a young girl, she had a beautiful, beautiful cousin that lived in California,
she was dating this millionaire's son
he wanted to marry her,
she wouldn't marry him
he drove out in the country one day and shot them both,
You're kidding.
I'm the one,
Himself and her?
that must have been at least fifty years ago or more,
the point of the story is that, that was so unbelievable a thing in those days that it was in all the papers, all over the country for weeks
I bet.
now, you wouldn't probably read about it here in Texas
I know,
it's just, another killing.
they were,
I was watching some show the other day,
they were talking about, mass murderers
they brought up what happened in Killeen here recently,
they were saying, that these guys want attention, and that when it happens they're glorified because all the newspaper, it's on
all the newspapers
and T V s and everything,
lots of their picture and life story and everything.
you get to their life story,
they came from a broken family
this person had mental problems
I know, how we (( )) straighten up all these twisted people before they do something terrible,
that story I just told you about my mother's beautiful cousin, the same thing happened here in Arlington, when was it, I think almost a year ago in December to a girl that my daughter had graduated from high school with.
Is that right?
I think it was on a Hard Copy,
she was a real attractive blond girl, her freshman year of college
some boy she tried to get rid of, he was like in his twenties,
I remember seeing that,
Remember that?
I saw that on Hard Copy .
My daughter graduated with her from Arlington High School.
Is that right?
can you believe it,
that's just,
I'm trying to remember,
he, had her in the car in front of a Taco (( )) or something
Taco Bueno,
he just shot them
himself and her.
I remember seeing that.
isn't that weird?
there's just too many crazy people out there these days.
I know,
the police are not going to do anything until committed some sort of a crime.
he was just begging her on the phone,
that's not doing anything.
there are times I think, gee, I (( )) should give my kids gu ,
(( )) not be a very good conversationalist on fishing.
I don't do a lot of it.
I do love to fish.
maybe I can learn something.
I don't know how much you can learn.
I'm not so sure I'm good at it,
I do enjoy doing it.
Do you?
it is fun, what little I do.
Of course, I don't,
I think when they refer to different kinds of fishing
I told my husband last night when I had called and they had, told me that this was a topic, I said, I can tell them how to fish with a minnow or how to fish with a worm .
He said, I don't think that's the different kinds of fishing they're talking about .
I hope it is,
there's not a whole lot of different kinds.
That's about the only kind I know how to do.
I don't do a lot of deep sea fishing,
get seasick,
we have a lot of lakes here in this area
I do a lot of fishing for, bass.
We have a lakes in our area that are with good sized bass.
when I get tired of them outwitting me, I fish for catfish
we use worms and shiners, which is pretty much like minnows
a little bit bigger than minnows,
I also use spinner baits and plastic worms.
It all depends on what I'm fishing for, and the time of day.
it sounds like you do quite a bit of it.
I do.
there's a lake maybe two or three miles from here,
it's very convenient on afternoons when I want to just get away and sit and think.
Fishing's a good way to do that,
I have a lot of friends who like to go fishing.
Do you have a boat?
I don't.
I have a friend who has a little raft,
use that sometimes.
I wish I had a boat,
I don't.
I think the lakes are probably different in Michigan than they are in Texas.
The ones around here are so big, that you can fish off the dock
unless you have a boat you can't really get into good fishing holes,
That's the same way here, isn't it?
Is it?
You have to get back in the sticks in the,
My in laws live on a lake, a little bit east of Dallas, kind of in the Piney Woods,
the lake is beautiful,
I like to go out and stand at the end of the dock and fish,
actually catching fish to eat per se, you don't really do much of that right there.
I catch a lot of little old, I think they call them perch
turtles try to eat up all my bait .
so close to the dock that I think all I do is feed them a little bit
We don't have,
it's kind of fun.
We don't have a big problem with turtles,
we do have a awful lot of snakes in our lakes.
I would be afraid of that.
I can't think of a time that I've been fishing that I haven't run into one or two of them.
Do they ever get on your hook?
occasionally I'll catch an eel
hook, but never the snakes.
They just kind of,
Are they poisonous snakes?
we have a lot of cotton mouth,
they are, definitely
they live in coves that I like to fish in,
I seem them swimming by every once in a while.
I think I'd be a little bit afraid of those.
they're certainly ugly.
We, saw a large snake right off the dock there at my in laws' place last year.
It was probably four inches in diameter or something like that
Great big snake,
scared the women to death,
the men come out and said that's only king snake, it won't really hurt you,
it looked so bad
it was so big, that it might not would have hurt us,
we sure felt like it was hurting us, just being there, .
they're scary looking.
Do you have bass?
I think that, probably around here people fish for bass and crappie and catfish more than anything else.
that's pretty much the same way here.
they have a lot of bass tournaments.
we have those.
I don't
enter one of those, I never catch a thing.
I just go out there and sit and watch other people do it.
that's kind of,
we've never entered a tournament or anything.
We're not that big into fishing,
I see a lot of people,
early in the morning there'll be all the boats going out,
they'll say, there's a big bass tournament this weekend,
all those people are here for the tournament,
I think there's a lot of people that have, sport fishing,
they're really into it to try to win.
Certainly here they are.
relaxing sport to be able to just be out on the water and looking around.
The peace and calmness is really relaxing.
it's a good thing to take a nice book and sit back and read and fish.
That's what I do a lot.
I've never tried taking a book with me.
I'll have to try that one of these days.
this is Donna Donahue.
Hi, Donna.
Ready to get started?
I think so.
Sort of an interesting topic since I just got back from lunch here .
what did you have for lunch?
I'm an officer in the Air Force,
we went to the Officers' Club for a little Mexican food *
today. *
that's interesting.
our topic food today,
is that,
If you're having a dinner party, would you serve?
do you want me to go first?
If I was having a dinner party I would probably, have some fruit to start with with some apples sliced up and maybe some cheddar cheese and crackers and grapes and, probably serve maybe some wine and beer and maybe have some, salsa and chips around and peanuts.
a little theme when I have a dinner party
I would have maybe, say if it was Greek night or something *
maybe, on the barbecue we'd put, cubes of lamb or I guess lamb used for Greek. And, a shish kabob,
and, mushrooms and tomatoes and onions
we'd have, a big Greek tossed salad kind of like a Caesar salad.
let's see what else.
maybe some rolls and, I guess some, some rice or something like that.
How does that sound? .
when is the party here? .
that would take some planning
I don't know
the bachelor here that I am, don't think
not a question of capability here to do something like that.
It's just no motivation.
That's right.
throw some charcoal on the grill throw a steak on there and some baked potatoes and stuff like that
that sounds good too.
three kids
when we have friends over I have my oldest kind of baby sit for the little two younger ones upstairs
usually we just have very plain kind of, meals.
Pizza and that (( all
)) once in a while when we do something like that it's kind of fun,
it's not a,
not a regular thing.
are we supposed to talk for about five minutes,
is that *
that's what they,
Okay. *
they are shooting for here.
let's see now
wh ,
you would have a barbecue wouldn ,
lake here,
during the summertime it's real nice to be able to entertain outdoors,
that's a little more a casual thing.
in the wintertime it's not bad too because then I've got fireplace and a nice, nice house and all that
sort of, a, *
that sounds wonderful.
really good place to do entertaining like that.
I just haven't, really tried a whole lot
I don't know,
let's see.
a dinner party.
I served a,
I had a gang of people over and kind of made a fried chicken thing and biscuits,
and kind of food even though I'm up here in New York,
you are in New York right now?
in Texas.
I didn't know this was over the whole country.
I see.
it is.
I'm Long Island.
no kidding?
where are you in New York?
(( Griffins )) Air Force Base.
Is that where are originally from around there?
I was born in Buffalo, *
been all over the place.
That's interesting.
let's see.
everybody bring something,
that's real interesting because then you get kinds of foods and new recipes
sometimes somebody will be bring something that you really like,
get the recipe from them or whatever.
we are just getting interested Mexican food
here in Texas they have lots of,
really good Mexican restaurants
just getting into the fajitas and all that stuff that you could,
do you know what a fajita is?
I've been down to Texas a few times,
and, had, the pleasure of their good Mexican,
cuisine down there.
They have some delicious, delicious things,
since I always make chicken burritos and just
take chicken breasts
you boil them, maybe like four chicken breasts,
you boil them until they are cooked.
Maybe like thirty minutes
then you debone them kind of shred them up into the meat (( that has gotten )) cooled
you take, little bit, maybe two tablespoons of butter in a big frying pan. And chop up some onion and put in oregano and salt,
I guess I've always kind of liked golf.
worked on a golf course one time
that's how I picked up golf.
I don't know
it's just challenging game.
It sure is.
I play at least three times a week.
I'm on it,
I haven't gotten the chance lately though to play.
I'm trying to get back into it.
I got to start all over again.
It's not like riding a bicycle.
You do tend to,
I'm one of those rare left handed golfers.
I do enjoy playing.
What is your handicap?
Right now it's three.
I was down at about four or five quite awhile ago.
It's probably up there to twenty now if I (( )) start again.
if you play with some consistency though, you can get it right back down.
I have got to try and get out there.
know with long winters enjoy watching it.
I don't know if it's just because I like the game or I just like see the warm weather.
we can usually play here year around.
Sometimes in January it's not too comfortable to play.
there is usually two or three days in the week that you can get out there and play,
I'm pretty much addicted to golf,
I get out there one way or the other.
that's the problem out here with the long layovers with the winter
you almost have to relearn every spring get back out.
It's a good game though.
It's very challenging
the reason I like it so much is because I'm essentially playing against myself.
That's the way I look at it.
play of groups
keep score between themselves
I really don't care.
I go out
each shot I say, this is what I'm going to try to do
I see how close I can come to that.
you always work on trying to improve each day
one facet of my game isn't working at one time or another.
Either I'm not driving very well
I'm not hitting long irons very well
I'm not putting well
sometimes it all comes together.
I know what you mean.
used to golf out there I'd putt well but wouldn't, chip well.
One of the two,
something would go wrong
I always managed get near par anyway.
we just had the tour championship here in Pine Hurst.
I went to that.
Craig (( Statler )) won in a playoff.
this is a big golf area.
We have a lot of,
I'd say we probably have within fifteen miles, twenty golf communities built around courses that are pretty well designed and then of course, Pine Hurst
we still have the (( Greensboro )) Open here every year.
Do you have, long waits, to get on the course?
we do as a matter of fact.
it's only been that way in the last five years.
now you,
most of the courses have a, two day advance tee time you have to call,
I just moved into this small community
I'm going to try and get into one of the golf courses here.
I'm hoping that won't be,
cou ,
was from the,
twin cities area.
That's some cold golf too, isn't it?
Yeah .
Are you sure you guys aren't having the bad weather?
We have cold.
Usually January and the first two weeks of February.
I wish that's all we had.
last week we were in the seventies.
Something is coming through now
it's like in the low forties right now.
it's supposed to leave early in the week and then be back in the sixties.
We have very windy winters
Yeah .
and very cold.
we don't get any snow anymore.
know what changed that pattern.
We used to get four or five inches a year.
Now we get nothing.
It's been probably five years since we've had any measurable snowfall.
I see.
at least doesn't, get in the way of golfing
that ,
I have played golf in the snow before. *
Get out my orange golf ball and go out.
that's what they do here sometimes.
You hear about it where they will take the orange ball out there
if you got,
what do you, think is worst culprit for air pollution?
I think probably a combination of things.
factories burn coal as energy source with sulfur and nitrogen contaminants,
you get sulfur oxides and nitrogen oxides.
those are the ones I think primarily contribute to acid rain,
I think probably hurting us a little bit.
Germany, for example, too, and some other parts of Europe have high industry.
we're not the lone ranger here.
it's hard to put the finger on, what's worse, the acid rain situation or the ozone depletion, with, your hydrocarbons,
causing the damage in which,
Hopefully we're backing off from that a little bit,
I know we haven't cured it yet by a long shot.
I notice on one of these, home shopping networks they were selling these, halogen, fire extinguishers
the halogen is, an ozone depleter,
it got hydrocarbons in there.
It's a very clean, fire extinguisher,
it's, really bad on the environment.
I guess I missed that one.
Automobiles of course are contributing, too,
you know, we are with our love affair with the auto
kind of hard to do anything about that, I guess.
I know,
in the Twin Cities area,
I just moved out of there and was kind of happy I timed it just right,
they had a new policy where in order to get renewed, you had to meet the pollution standards
We have that here, too,
it's part of the inspection sticker,
they put a probe in your exhaust pipe
the computer reads whatever the ionization is coming out,
C and
so the way they're dealing with it here.
I guess that was just mainly in the cities there,
as far as where I live, I don't have to do that,
I have an old car which I doubt pass the inspection, a seventy six,
there's no way I would put in a lot of money repair it
to meet standards.
It'd probably be difficult anyway.
although I do what I can cut down pollution,
I was just reading an article in, magazine
they've got a new,
a lot of places are burning wood
of people are burning wood,
those of us who have,
I've got a place in the country,
they've had on those, on,
I think they're required in California and Oregon Washington,
they've had up those for quite a while,
somebody's come up with a new one that, sort of,
catalytic converter,
a plate that fits the smoke pipe
apparently it sort of feeds itself.
The more smoke is produced,
after you get to like five hundred degrees, the higher it gets the more complete the combustion is.
it sounds real neat.
I haven't seen them priced anywhere yet,
sounds like that might help solve that problem even on
older stoves that don't have any kind of E P A requirements on them.
That might help a little bit, especially in some places.
We're really lucky here.
We have a prevailing southerly wind that blows just about everything out.
sometimes we get a kind of a,
especially autumn it seem like we get kind of a brown haze sitting on us,
most of the time it's blowing out pretty well.
Probably blowing up there to you guys .
around here get,
it depends,
winter time blows it your way,
in the
summer time
It comes back.
we probably get yours.
I really think, we're doing important things.
Education, raising consciousness awareness,
I know school kids,
I work for the school district here,
this is one of the big things with kids.
Kids are writing letters to the newspapers telling adults to
clean up their act
I hope we're not too late with it.
we're having all kinds of recycling.
it, a big thing, too.
I know it has nothing to do with air pollution,
I kind of look at the way people treat our,
Surprised they get anybody this time of day
I've been trying all different times,
I don't get anybody at five thirty, don't get anybody at nine at night
I'm at,
I'll try (( )) ,
I just happened to walk back into my office.
Oh .
I've been gone for a little while .
I go to school
I'm home certain days,
I really haven't been making any phone calls, have you?
ever made any.
I just receive them .
Oh .
received many?
I haven't here lately.
the first time we were on this it came just about every day.
I never had to make one.
They just always came .
People must be tired of it or something.
anyway I guess we're supposed to discuss this, subject,
what do you think? .
I never gave it any thought myself .
I was hoping you could tell me what you thought.
I don't have any objection to people doing that.
I think it might be good for them.
as a mother of two daughters I might be afraid of where they were sent.
I'm just concerned about their safety
if they do good work in America they'll probably be sent to a ghetto .
if they were sent to a third world country I couldn't help but wait worried,
That, that would be my main objection.
I don't know
I think maybe should stay on a voluntary basis .
I don't think,
it will probably never happen
think it would be good for, everyone to do something like that
guess I don't feel like it should be something forced upon you.
probably won't.
even know how we'd pay for it anyway.
We can't,
seem to pay for all the little things we have going now .
That's another consideration .
Exactly .
I don't know
kids are so spoiled nowadays
it might be a real eye opener, .
Really .
sometimes my kids are on the other side of town here
they just see some really tiny modest wood frame homes
they think,
they're just kind of shocked at that side of town, .
I probably lived in one of those when I was a little girl .
I have a girlfriend that every time her son starts taking things for granted she threatens to send him to Mexico with her relatives and let him get a taste of that for a while .
Oh .
that would be an eye opener, wouldn't it?
Wouldn't it though?
right next to us is such a pitiful country.
it is.
I know.
Sometimes I wish we'd help them out instead of going all across the world,
and helping some countries I never even heard of.
I know it.
It seems to me we are,
it would be to our benefit to strengthen that country.
Right on our borders.
what do I know, right? .
I'm just sitting at home and,
and, doing laundry today and certainly not up,
nobody has called me from Washington .
anyway, how did you get on this program?
I work at T I.
you do work at T I?
you're in Lewisville.
I just went by that place.
We were going to a football playoff game a week or so ago which we lost
we went by.
That's the first time I'd seen it.
It looked really nice.
A lot of trees there.
It looked like sight.
Hang on a minute.
. No,
I don't think so,
Patty might.
I'm back.
Di ,
how did you get on it?
my husband works at T I over on Central.
why we're living in Arlington I'm not so sure
he works over there
tha ,
we did it last time.
registered this time.
I don't know,
they didn't even ask him back .
That was weird, wasn't it?
like I said I hardly ever get any calls this time.
I don't get too many.
I can never find anybody.
The first time I used to get calls from far away too.
Like Maryland,
and New Jersey,
now it just seems like it's in the Dallas Fort Worth area that I get calls from.
I've had the same experiences,
all right around here.
I don't know,
I wonder if they really,
I don't know if they could possibly teach a machine to recognize all the different accents.
so many with this one town
in some families some people talk a little bit different.
My husband is from New Jersey
one of his sisters does things that really sound funny to me
he doesn't pronounce them at all that way,
that's one family, right? .
Of course, I think everybody in New Jersey sounds a little bit funny
I agree.
how that goes .
I'm surprised she hasn't told us to cut it off yet.
Sometimes she says (( at night. ))
switc , or overloads
please end your conversation.
do you have any more words of wisdom about the subject? .
I sure don't .
You don't have any kids you want to send over here? .
no kids .
(( )) is .
I don't know if mine would want to go live in the ghetto.
one of them is real idealistic,
she might .
My sister is,
I'd be more (( suited to )) that than her
she's just bugs,
you ready?
is that it?
That's it.
Okay, .
have to talk about magazines
kind do you subscribe to or do you?
for a long time.
I do,
I enjoy PEOPLE.
now subscribe to, LADIES HOME JOURNAL.
I, take a computer magazine.
And, also, BETTER HOMES AND GARDENS.
are you interested computers?
my pet peeve with magazines
is all the little cards inside.
And the cardboard pages .
would be one of my peeves.
My pet peeves with magazines, the woman's magazines especially,
really geared to,
all they have,
you have too many recipes first of all.
I just don't,
that's what I don't like about LADIES HOME JOURNAL magazines.
Too many recipes, too many, can this marriage with saved nonsense.
like to read articles about things that matter.
of course, PEOPLE magazine is not, one of your,
your more intellectual magazines,
it's nice, light reading .
if I want something intellectual, I usually read a book.
that's true.
like it when they have short stories.
REDBOOK used to always have a good short story in it.
that's true,
they did.
I haven't bought a REDBOOK in a while ,
I guess ,
really very rarely ever pick up a magazine anymore .
is REDBOOK still in existence?
I don't know around anymore.
Yeah .
I think it is.
Surely, *
it's an institution,
surely it would have to be.
I'll tell you, the only reason JOURNAL is because of,
which I think it was either,
it was Publisher's Clearinghouse ,
Right .
They told me, if I didn't subscribe they were going to take me off their list .
Mine, too .
This was it, my last chance .
chance to win ten million dollars,
I figured, hey, look .
For twelve dollars,
I went ahead and sent in my subscription because of that
That's it.
to, ENTERTAINMENT.
I was real disappointed with it.
don't know,
it just,
not enough stories with some substance that you can really get into.
It's little short articles more than anything else.
that's one thing I don't like about PEOPLE.
it seem to have enough story to it.
I don't know,
I just think, it's,
If you've only got a short time to read .
It's light reading.
to concentrate,
that's true .
It's entertaining,
enjoy it,
that ENTERTAINMENT very,
the TV GUIDE?
, no,
not really.
not the one I take now.
it goes into all the movies, previewing the movies
that are going to be released or behind the scenes.
I see.
I'm a real movie buff,
that's why I thought I might be interested in it,
it just hasn't been what I thought it would be.
my mother the reason I get, the HOME JOURNAL and the, computer book is because mother got a subscription for it and sent it to me.
Otherwise, I really want to take the time to read a magazine and I see one on the grocery shelf, I'll pick it up then.
Rather than having them delivered and think, I really need to read this .
I'll tell you, since I've been getting the JOURNAL, I'll read two, maybe three,
if I read three articles one of the JOURNALs, I figure, I did really well.
there's just nothing in there that interests me.
I'm not into, recipes
do like recipes and crafts.
I'm not into crafts,
eliminates, three quarters of the magazine .
That's true.
I just got the new issue,
they have Bette Midler on the cover,
that should be one article that I'll read anyway .
Do you,
how is the weather out there?
it's really cold
unseasonably cold
they've gotten more snow than they've ever had.
You have, breaking records for coldness and all that kind of stuff.
How about you guys?
it's about same.
The usual, I think.
nice for skiing and all that kind of stuff .
It's good.
here is different from Utah's,
I have lived in Utah for ten years.
What part?
I was going to B Y U.
the snow is really cold.
it's, really humid
it seems wetter or something like that.
It's more humid in Utah than there?
Or there?
It's more humid in Iowa
than Utah.
it seems like when the winds blow, it goes right through you.
It's really different from Utah's weather.
I thought Utah was cold,
I think Iowa is a lot colder .
that's how it is in Texas, too
when it's cold, it's really cold.
I don't think there is any mountains to stop the wind .
What's that?
I don't think there is any mountains to stop the wind.
the humidity is I think what does it .
I think that's true.
noticed when I got here, too,
when it would snow in Texas
we'd have to get really warm,
here you can almost not even wear a coat outside when it's snowing
you don't
that's true.
you don't feel super cold.
It was weird.
how long ago did you graduate?
did you,
I graduated in nineteen eighty seven.
my husband got his doctorate at B Y U,
he just graduated this past year.
you just barely moved away?
huh .
Do you like it out there?
we really miss Utah .
We miss
You do?
the mountains.
it's, really flat here .
not flat, but hilly.
But no big mountains or anything.
you just moved away a year ago?
in August.
Wow, really recent.
what else can I say about the weather.
, today was warmer .
It was forty five .
warm .
what's the temperature up today over there?
probably fifty, fifty five, maybe.
Maybe not that warm.
Probably about,
that cold, really.
whenever I remembered the weather reports in Utah, I never really remember them talking too much about wind chill.
they talk about wind chill here all the time.
that's a big deal in Texas, too.
They said it could be, six degrees out and, negative forty one wind chill.
that's what we're not used to .
that's true.
That makes a big difference.
did you used to ski when you were out here?
What's that?
Did you used to ski when you were in Utah?
skied in Utah once.
I only skied once my whole life .
do you do a lot of skiing there?
not tons,
I like to when I get a chance.
I've only been once so far, but had the opportunity a couple times since then.
Just saving my money for Christmas things
and that.
is this your first year in Utah?
this is actually my third year.
you're going to school there?
At U of U,
at B Y U.
I'll be here a long time , at this rate.
What's your major?
it was nursing,
I'm in the process of changing it right now.
it's really, really competitive at B Y U.
You have to have a three seven to get in
That's true.
It's really,
I'm going to look into some other fields.
I'd like,
all the science classes and that, I'm just not really enjoying too much
I think I better get into something that I can enjoy the process of going to school
a good idea.
Did you graduate in a certain field
I got a double major.
elementary and special ed.
That what my sister did.
you might know her.
Here name is Lori, Bird.
Maybe not .
I think she graduated around then, too, though, eighty seven probably,
she got her doc ,
I can't,
there are so many girls in all my classes,
I can't remember
how many people.
they, since, stopped that program. where you can
have they?
where you can get it double pretty easily.
We're set.
What changes do you feel have happened?
I guess the first thing has been right, for women to vote.
I think that has been a major change and also the fact that, there are so more women in the work force nowadays than there were
that's probably going to increase.
Increases each year, doesn't it?
I'm sorry?
It increases each year I think.
It sure does.
there is a lot more women in the work place nowadays.
I think women have kind of had, in the past the real subservient
That's changing .
we do to some degree
I think it's not as much as it was.
It definitely
has changed.
especially, I think with women increasingly working, they're going to have to demand more from men.
there is just, to keep up on everything else.
Have more of an active role in taking care of children, more of an active role in taking care of the home.
they've been talking about
I don't know, what the status is on it,
women get maternity leave and stuff like that
I know that has been discussion about men also getting maternity leave
to help out,
I haven't really heard much about that recently.
there is a lot of companies that won't give leave for that very reason.
in fact, I know the school districts down here, don't have maternity leave.
is that right?
you simply have to your sick leave.
And take your sick leave.
I don't know, if bigger company companies do,
when I was employed with the school district, I didn't have maternity leave either
that was the reason
they thought was showing (( prejisim )) to women and not to men
that's interesting.
That's a bummer, though .
, it is.
You have to save all of your, vacation time.
You got to take the time off .
You do.
You have to save all your vacation time
that's usually how it's, happened,
What do you see, changing in the future?
I think that we're probably going to see a lot more companies, run by females.
we'll prob ,
top level.
I'm sorry?
Maybe top level.
upper management,
more women in upper management
probably, we'll see more females in political roles.
More governors and, I think, roles like that.
That would be kind of nice .
a female governor.
That's right,
that's right.
we had a female mayor here in Dallas,
I think we're probably going to see more of that
in the future .
I think that's probably good.
A little more integration.
maybe not so much that we sit on the back burners
that's fine with me
I think,
I'm not a women's libber by any means,
I do,
there are issues that, as far as, equal pay for men and women and that kind of stuff, I totally am for.
I don't get into real
I don't either.
women libber movement,
I don't think they're ever going to prove that men and women are equal .
We just function differently .
I'm not capable of lifting what, a man can lift and
one of the big changes, they're doing in Salt Lake is,
they're probably,
I'm sure, in Dallas since you're big places, a lot more women are, working right out of their home with their P C's or with their lap computers or whatever.
heard of that.
I haven't really talked to anybody that's, too involved with that.
I think that is a,
I think that,
Like the cottage industry.
that what you're talking about, women working out of their homes?
I think it's wonderful .
You only have to check in with the office once or twice a week
Course, they're talking about, that we're going to be able to do our grocery shopping and
I kn ,
banking and
By the phone and all that.
everything like that,
it would be kind of exciting in some ways see a little bit more of that
some ways, it might be kind of scary.
Think anybody could do it,
I wouldn't mind just calling up the grocery store and giving them my order and
going an hour later and picking it up .
there is the process of selection.
Would you have to give them
the brand
when you shop, you usually compare the prices
would be nice, though.
(( )) How big is Provo?
That a little town a bigger city?
it's not one of the bigger ones. It's probably, I compare it to the size of Plano, maybe a little smaller.
Plano, Texas.
I talked to someone that was only a couple of thousand in her town, I think.
really? *
I forgot the name of the town.
I thought maybe it was you .
No . *
anyway, we're supposed to talk about education.
I certainly have some ideas since I'm studying it now in college.
I'd say, first of all, they need to go back to spending more time on the basic reading, writing, arithmetic
in grade school,
they really teach you about forty percent less than they used to,
it shows up.
That's one idea.
Do you have any?
I don't know,
satisfied with,
up in Plano
my dad is actually on the school board there,
I kind of kept up with a lot of things that went on.
Plano, improved greatly in the last twenty, twenty five years
that's for sure.
It used to be the pits.
Arlington is excellent now,
I'm just speaking overall
across the country.
Something is definitely wrong.
one thing, they don't spend as much time just teaching reading and writing,
a lot of kids are just being promoted from year to year
they truly can't read
I don't know how they expect them to, pass history when they can't read anything, even read a word problem in math.
that's definitely a problem.
Another problem is you're going to keep the smarter people in the system too long paying the wages they do.
think is good about the schools?
That is good about,
it depends on where you are.
They're all so different.
That's another thing
about the United States.
There's no national curriculum,
what they'd be teaching in an Arlington school they may not be teaching in a Plano school
in the same school district, have an English class
you may have half literature for the whole year,
whereas in another one they're going to concentrate on grammar
and give you a little literature,
it's up to the teacher, in other words.
to me.
It depends on, what school you're in and who your teacher is, actually
is how you end up .
Overall, Arlington is good, one of the better ones in the state,
I guess we lucked out when we moved here.
that's the thing is just to look at the school system in the area that you move into before you.
Of course we have a slight problem in that, the number of the illiterate in America is mushrooming at this point,
where our kids might be in a great school, we're still paying an awful lot of taxes for people who are on welfare and unemployment because they can't read,
do you think that there should be, nationwide, curriculum?
I don't know.
I just read about that the other day,
I had never even thought of it.
Actually it makes sense to a certain extent,
sometimes, a third grade teacher will get kids from second grade that didn't even learn what,
they should to do the work that she is supposed to teach,
(( )) and according to her plan,
I guess if there was a national curriculum we'd at least have a certain amount that all kids would learn.
We actually rank forty ninth in the world as far as just plain literacy goes,
pretty low that there's
forty eight countries ahead of us that have percentage wise that can read and write,
unless we want to keep for these people that can't make it in society, we're going to have to do something.
Who do you think it should be done through? *
I don't know.
Obviously nobody's smart enough to have figured it out yet,
I probably can't .
. *
I do think that we have to cut out some of this folderol stuff and go back in the first five, six grades and just keep going over and over and over until most of those that are capable can at least learn to read and write
huh. *
they can't even get the menial job without being able to read something nowadays
even work an answering machine if you're at work and had to get a message or something , or fill out an application to work at McDonalds if you can't read.
I think a start at least, going back to the basics in the early grades
Yes. *
they say that the average English student nowadays does at least fifty percent less reading and writing than they did twenty years ago,
that's a big jump.
Yeah *
I believe that .
Did you go to school in Plano?
I did.
Through high school.
kinder ,
there, you guys don't have as, big a problem with air pollution as many, do you?
we have a terrible air pollution problem.
Do you really?
Our summers are extremely, hazardous
during, certain wind directions because we get the, Gary, Indiana
Chicago pollution
we can look out on the lake and just see the brown haze,
That's horrible.
coming up along the lake.
they do post, warnings for people who have, heart diseases or respiratory problems
during that summer season.
In the winter it's not as severe.
if the wind comes basically from the south it can be really bad.
the State of Wisconsin, as a matter of fact, started some litigation against Illinois because of the air pollution we were getting.
I don't think it's going to go very far,
was, a way of, triggering, awareness.
what's the conditions like in Dallas?
in Dallas, haven't seen air pollution level that we had in Denver.
I grew up in Denver,
I've lived there most of my life,
we used to have posted warning days.
however, in Colorado now, they have the emissions control law, which has really cut down,
probably only once every couple of years do we ever have pollution so bad that they have to warnings now, as far as health concerns.
due to emissions, control on the vehicles, seems that smog was caused by vehicles rather than industry.
Wisconsin has law in which we need to take our cars in every year when we apply for a new license tag
and they are tested for, their pollution control equipment,
if they don't qualify then they have to take it to a mechanic and have it gone over and then verify that is drivable.
tried to do a lot of that
I thi ,
there seem to be, at least in certain little pockets,
we were talking earlier about Madison
Madison has one of the nicest, bike, road, sharing programs any city in Wisconsin
all Wisconsin has probably the most extensive number of, bike trails for recreational use
of any of the states.
there is real promotion biking
there are still a lot of people who insist driving their own automobiles
to go everywhere.
I find that a little irritating, because
I don't think it's always so necessary.
maybe to you and I who have grown up more beautiful parts of the country, I think we become a little more aware, rather quickly what's happening with air pollution and horrible it really is.
notice people Dallas seem to say, sure, there's air pollution, but, really, this problem really be.
them to Wisconsin,
we'll let them try to drink out of some of the lakes
really .
and try to fish in some of the lakes that have been suffering from, the, acid rain
they may wake up,
how'd you like to own a piece of property where your lake is going sour
because of acid rain.
It's, really a serious issue for those of us up in this, sector here.
do you hypothesize most of the, smog air pollution comes from vehicles
does it come mostly from industry up there?
I think it's mostly vehicles
although it does come from some of the industry the Gary area
I don't know exactly where it emerges from when up in the, northern sectors of Wisconsin *
that causes the acid rain.
That I'm a little uncertain of,
I do know that, it is a problem.
I had talked with my parents.
I was born in, Muncie, Indiana, grew up a little bit in Terre Haute,
I had asked them before,
I went back to visit recently, about a year ago,
I asked them,
I said, did you ever realize the air pollution that was,
I'm sorry,
That's okay,
I didn't hear.
Let me see,
I don't know if that took or not,
I'll do it again.
What are your hobbies?
I hear you have kids, right?
You heard her in the background .
That's babies.
That's your full time, hobby, right?
Takes a lot of time,
I like, most sports.
I like to do that.
I kind of like to do a little bit of sewing.
little bit of embroidery work, once in a while.
What do you like to do?
I try to do some painting, although I'm not very good at it .
I'm sure you probably are.
not really.
You like it,
that's the main (( )) .
I inherited the genes that make me think I'm creative,
but not the ones that give me the ability to be.
That's right.
I always try.
do some sewing, mostly out of necessity.
I'm making drapes for my house, just because I'm,
boy, that's hard sewing.
it isn't and it is.
It is,
actually the sewing isn't the hard part,
it's just being able to lay out the material and measure it
Measure it and get it to,
because you need so much room.
depends on how elaborate you get it.
If you get pleats and all kinds of,
I've been doing that
That's a lot of work.
usually have to do the pleats by hand.
that, at least
I can do, watching T V or whatever
gone and, put the needle through my thumb a few times ,
trying to get it through
That feels really good.
that's not really my favorite thing to do or anything, but need to do it.
To do it,
a dog, and a lot of fish.
Keeping fish, I guess
Keeping fish (( )) .
is my biggest hobby.
they're probably easier than keeping dogs, though, aren't they.
yes and no.
It depends on how frequently they die, and
how much that bothers you.
How much that bothers you,
you probably have to clean out the tank too.
you don't have to do as much I thought.
In fact, my problem,
I had fish as a kid
they always died
think now is the reason is I kept the tank too clean
you're kidding
you have,
they need to have a little bit of the,
you need to let the bacteria build up,
it keeps all the chemicals in balance.
I see.
I would just take everything out and just wash it with scalding hot water
it would kill all the bacteria,
that would screw up all the chemical cycles again
you'd have to
start all over
to build that up probably.
That's right.
now clean things to make things look more aesthetically pleasing
I don't try and sterilize things .
Don't go through the whole nine yards
That's right.
they kind of need a little bit of that.
That's right.
you've had fish for a long time.
I've had them,
I guess it's been two years now I've had tank here,
back at home I used to have a small, five gallon tank.
that never worked well.
What size do you have now?
I have fifty five gallons now. *
that's a good size.
It's a lot easier.
Have you ever had it, crack or break or leak.
No .
(( )) .
not yet.
Fifty five gallons, you'd hope it would never do that.
That's right,
I really do.
Do you have all kinds of different fish
I just have, what they call community fish
guppies, and platies basic things.
I don't get into the
Real exotic.
The expensive ones.
they're probably to take care of
They are.
They're very expensive
an investment.
I bet it is.
You lost an investment
Do you have problems with eating each other?
not really.
Only if there's baby fish.
You always have to isolate those.
Then you have to,
how do you isolate them?
You get a
A jar or something
they have breeders.
It's a little plastic things that sort of floats
you put the mother fish in there
it's got a trough underneath her
as the babies come out they fall down in the trough
there's a hole in the middle so they fall into the bottom part of the chamber
so the mother can't get to them either.
it kind of works,
it's also got slots in it so the water can circulate
on occasion if you get a real small one, *
it'll fit out the slots.
It'll go through the slot.
That's right,
it works, I guess.
That works all right then.
They don't, want the mothers to be with the little fish either.
they'll eat them.
They will.
Isn't that odd.
You wouldn't think that.
funny because the one I have, every single month without fail she has babies.
You're kidding.
All the time,
she's supposed to,
her variety, it says they won't eat the babies,
I've seen her do it.
that just makes you sick almost, doesn't it?
it's ter ,
it makes you understand that, things are different .
Things are different in the animal kingdom,
decide what's proper and what isn't,
that's the way it is for them.
That's kind of the way they do it.
That's it.
Survival of the fittest or something.
if the baby is strong enough, it can swim away fast enough
and go hide.
Go hide from them,
you think, how did they do it out in the real world anyway
when these fish are in the tropicals or wherever they are
kind of trying to keep up with that,
If you're like me, you never have enough time for the hobbies.
not really.
play a couple of instruments.
the Cowboys are my favorite team.
That's pretty easy to say nowadays .
Lot easier than it was a couple years ago,
they had a big win today.
did you get to watch it?
I didn't.
I, have been at my computer all day
Are you a Cowboy fan?
I used to be a real big Cowboy fan
I'm not a Jimmy Johnson fan.
Being an Okie
I just really don't care much,
kind of hard not to be a Cowboy fan, though.
They've always been, my favorite.
I guess I still have a soft spot.
I just hate that that's the coach
that's leading them.
now have they,
they're in the playoffs, right?
they made it to the playoffs finally
just, two years ago they were one and fifteen.
They won just one game
pretty fast turnaround.
this year they made it to playoffs
today was the first game
they beat the Chicago Bears
everybody's really going crazy, down here.
I'll bet they are.
They're going crazy,
they turned it around,
they have a lot of young exciting players now,
everybody was real upset, when they fired Tom Landry,
now it's like, they're doing good so everybody's forgotten about that.
football fans are probably the most fickle people in the world.
Hit a bad season
it's, the coach's fault,
dump him.
First good season, the coach can do no wrong.
Dallas has always been good ahead, heading good players and
both backs defense.
they have a young team.
It's, a lot different than the teams they used to have where it's the same old, players every year and, same coach, same everything,
now it's, like a taste of something different.
They're all not, mister nice guys like they used to be.
Now it's tough and dirty team
everybody is really excited.
Who is the competition going to be?
it's supposed to be the Redskins, but we beat them already.
We beat them this year Washington
everybody has the feeling like we can go all the way to the Super Bowl,
it's just that we have to play every game away,
it's going to be tough,
every ,
the competition teams that they've already beat this year,
Atlanta, they're in it, too,
we beat them
Detroit, we play them next week,
we should beat them.
Everybody feels like we should be able to beat them
looking real good.
Course, I think, you can't really go by what happened earlier in the season
because teams jell together or they've had
injuries that heal
it can be a tot , have newly happened
it could be almost a totally new team out there than the one we played.
the Cowboys are on a roll.
They've won, I think six or seven in a row now,
they're supposed to be the hottest team league going into the playoffs
since you have an O U drop out as a quarterback,
Troy Aikman,
he got hurt at O U,
he transferred
to U C L A.
really didn't feel like he'd be able to do a lot of passing at O U.
O U has always been known for their running game.
More than,
They're playing tonight in fact.
I'm watching them on T V right now.
they're doing some stomping on Virginia.
I tell you,
not had much of a team this year, bless their little hearts .
they're doing good tonight.
Are they?
I haven't
they're winning.
been watching.
They're winning forty one to seven.
for us .
that's right,
Aikman did go to O U.
I forgot about that.
they h ,
then he went out
Is that where he went?
U C L A.
the Cowboys did good today.
I was proud.
they would get beat today because, they're so young,
You bet.
They tell you our topic?
You've got it.
Do you have pets?
we do.
my wife and I have a dog that soon be eight years old,
we have cat, which is, I guess about five years old.
my goodness.
How about you guys?
We have three dogs and
Three dogs.
two birds at this point.
two bi ,
what kind of birds do you have?
No, kidding.
have a ball with them.
You let them out and let them fly around and everything?
because my dogs chase them.
in order to have the birds not stuffed I have to keep them in their
You ,
this is like a cruelty joke,
I apologize if you're a bird lover,
we had a parakeet.
And, my fault, put up our first electric fan.
And never thought about it.
Knocked that parakeet right out of the air.
we had that happen once,
my son had the bird back in his room,
I had a ceiling fan put up,
got away from him one afternoon,
that sucker hit that fan and went flying up against the wall,
I thought,
It killed him?
so much for the bird.
he's still alive and kicking.
it killed ours,
I'll be darned.
I guess we didn't have it high enough or he didn't get hit in just the right spot,
it threw him up against the wall,
he slid down the wall.
speaking of pets, I'll tell you, kids are older now,
are either in or out of college,
my son had a Burmese boa constrictor,
gosh. *
that thing grew to be seven and a half feet length,
finally my bless her heart, got rid of it, because I didn't really like it.
I hate them. *
We also had a,
one year down in Florida on a vacation, for Father's Day, my kids, years ago, maybe, ten years ago, me a skunk from a exotic pet shop.
deactivated as far as
my goodness.
smell and everything,
we had that darn pet skunk for about five years,
my son left, went to school,
we finally sold his boa constrictor,
my son needed some money,
sold it for about two hundred and fifty dollars.
You're kidding.
when the guy came over, he was infatuated by that skunk,
I made him a deal,
I said, You take that skunk,
he said, I'll sell that snake to you for two fifty.
I said, otherwise I'm going to give it to this other man.
he took the skunk, too.
the skunk was pet,
does his little jobbies in the litter box,
that's pretty good.
it was sort of a neat,
they just stink too much .
That was sort of fun,
I tell everyone this story because my wife is a real pet lover.
I use to visualize my wife, (( ))
many times my wife would be lying there on the sofa,
this snake honestly would be stretched across the top of her body
you're kidding.
head right on her neck
the skunk would be sitting at her feet,
the cat would be on the back of the sofa,
a dog would be running around crazy .
my gosh.
I can not ima ,
in fact my brother has exotic pet shop out in California,
he keeps threatening to send a snake through the mail,
I'm going
don't do that, because they won't come in my house.
my son bought this snake, (( ))
someone gave it to him when he was in junior high school,
it was just a small thing then,
it got to be pretty big,
you him small mice to big rats and things like that
it's just, too much.
That snake used to watch our cat walk around.
I always told my wife,
I says
my gosh.
your friend's going to get our cat one of these days .
my gosh.
That is wild.
I just can't do those, and the lizards and
me neither.
all things,
need to stay outside, far away from me.
We're down to a simple dog and cat now,
that's the way it should be,
Haven't had any parakeets for quite a while,
customer of mine has a parrot,
gosh, sticks in my mind he paid eighteen hundred dollars for a parrot,
that was just mind boggling.
they are so expensive.
my son was just dying for a bird,
I'm really allergic to them,
Are you?
I try to stay away from them, except I've gotten real attached to this one,
we went down to Canton one time
gosh, two or three years ago now,
he'd saved up his allowance, and picked him out a bird in a bird cage
that stinking bird, when I brought it home tried to take it out of the little box that they give you
clamped onto my finger and would not,
I had to literally shake him off to get him in the cage,
he has tried to bite me for two years,
all of a sudden this bird and I have become wonderful friends.
He gives me kisses,
he talks now
That's neat.
it's just hysterical.
I'm the only one that pays attention to him.
Why, sure.
I'm a substitute teacher
one of my fifth graders last year came up to me and said, my mom's making me get rid of the bird,
we have too many pets.
I thought, yeah, right come tell me about it,
Come to my menagerie.
They knew the sucker when they saw one.
now we have two parakeets.
you enjoy camping?
like you, I haven't done any in quite some time
except for what I call living now
Yeah .
very close to camping .
Is it?
I, camped in the Boy Scouts
my dad and I went out sometimes
even my first, eight or nine years of working, I camped almost all of the time because I was in construction.
it is cheaper to pitch a tent and cook your meals out by the fire than it is to rent an apartment
add to stress.
when you have to have it, you have got to have it.
in those those kinds of situations, room rent which is outrageous.
my buddy and I, we just camped .
we figured, what the hell,
we did it when we were kids
we loved it.
Of course, we didn't really rough it that much.
I was in high school,
he is a couple years older than me
he graduated and went off to college
during the summer we would camp out at the lake.
it wasn't very much like camping because we had a refrigerator and a stove .
. Yeah.
I had a little boat house and floated it out on Lake Grapevine.
it was fantastic.
We would get up in the morning, go skiing,
that substituted for a shower
we would go to work and come back to the, boat house at night
in the afternoon, it is still four o'clock.
You have got four hours of day light, good skiing left.
it was great.
now all my life is more like camping than not camping really.
Do you have electricity out there.
You've got a phone obviously .
actually as a matter of fact, they just ran the phone three years ago.
We didn't have a phone.
They didn't have phone lines.
You just couldn't get phones.
electric string.
we are at the end of the mail route .
Like I said, we are probably as far as you can get from the Seven Eleven and still be in Texas.
I guess so,
right now, what we did, my wife and I, is we got a mobile home.
One of these twelve by forty eight's that got repoed,
And, swapped them a Cadillac for it and put it out here on the land figuring I would build a house some day,
I'm in construction
I just had this place to shower up while I was you know out here, putting up fence and building a driveway and drilling a well and all that stuff you have to do before you can even put a house in
I came home from work one Friday afternoon
our truck was back.
Everything we had was in boxes
my wife said, we're moving.
I said where.
she said out to the trailer.
I said, oh.
She said yep
I said okay .
we have been roughing it out here for about three years,
it is not bad.
have color T V, microwave
it is not horrible,
a lot like camping.
I grew up in California, in southe ,
in central California
right in the valley.
it is a forty five minute drive to the mountains
my dad loved fishing and camping.
we would go up.
First, we went up with a Toyota pick up truck and laid out our sleeping bags under the stars and cooked our, hot dogs by the fire or whatever.
then later my mom and dad got a camper
Became civilized.
we have kind of moved up.
A little bit in the world.
my mom goes camping
She takes her, motor home.
she's got one of these huge Winnebago's with a refrigerator and air conditioning, color T V, microwave oven
She just,
roughing it for me is going to the Holiday Inn and getting a shower.
she has a lot of fun.
mostly, it is just a way to,
goes to dog shows.
she shows dogs
you can sneak a dog into a motel
you can't sneak ten dogs into a motel.
No .
she, takes the motor home .
she made a deal with my dad that she would take all the dogs with her when she went dog showing.
if he would buy her a motor home .
. *
he did .
Yeah. *
as far as camping, my wife and I have plans to, not really camp per se, but to drive up the, Highway One there in California
as soon as we get this house finished.
I am going to need a vacation .
That will be pretty.
That's really pretty out there.
There are a lot of nice places,
what kind of vacations do you like to take? (( )) .
been fortunate enough to take a couple of trips over to Europe
guess those are the types I like .
We've really enjoyed them.
Where have you gone there?
We've gone to, Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Ireland and England.
We've been to Germany twice.
I guess my favorite is probably Switzerland and Ireland.
I've been over there too.
Where have you been?
I even.
Let's see,
mostly Germany and France.
I lived in France for a year and a half
how neat.
I was able,
had a chance in France to go on vacation instead of travelling around France I went to Germany
I've got relatives there
I just
that's neat.
like it there.
Austria, I found really pretty
and Switzerland,
lived in the Alps in France
how neat.
anything in the mountains over there I just love.
Then I finally made it to England, too, on my way home,
I lived in Africa, actually,
on my way home from there.
You lived in Africa?
my goodness .
Europe on your way home.
I went to England,
I really liked it there too.
It's so expensive over there .
I know,
it's true.
That's the one thing.
It really is.
I love to go over there,
it's so darn expensive
to go over.
now you can get some really good deals flying over,
once you're there you still have to spend money .
I know,
Unless you know people, .
Then you can stay with them,
That helps a lot.
there's a lot of places in the states that we haven't even gone.
I'd like to go to Hawaii some time,
we made it,
at least gone to the Grand Canyon and Niagara Falls.
Feel like we've accomplished a little bit here.
I haven't.
most of my vacationing in the U S has been on the West Coast
this summer I went to Colorado
I'd love to go to the East Coast, during the Fall.
I've always wanted to go there.
I've seen pictures,
it looks gorgeous.
made a trip up the East Coast.
It was, in the summer
it really is pretty.
both coasts are really pretty
I love the Carolinas.
It's just gorgeous over there.
I haven't been on the East Coast.
I think Tennessee has been the furthest east I've been.
you'll just have to plan a vacation some time
I guess so.
go over there.
a lot to see here
I just love going over to Europe because different than ours.
we're so fast paced here,
over there, every time we'd go eat dinner or lunch or whatever we'd always have to ask for the check
they're so leisurely over there
it's kind of nice have that.
the type of vacation you'd like,
would you go over and spend a lot of time in one place, or travel to whole bunch of different places in one week?
usually a bunch of different places.
probably because you want to see everything.
see as much as
you can while you're there.
I know.
How did you like Africa?
I liked it.
I was working in Cameroon, Africa
place for tourists,
they're not used to having tourists there,
you're kind of roughing it.
I liked it,
I liked it.
The people there are just friendly
What type of work?
I was working with an organization that does Bible translation.
I was doing linguistic work actually, travelling around, finding out about languages, and
what they call survey work.
Find out where the languages are.
I travelled a lot around the country and met a lot of people.
That's neat.
I enjoyed it.
I've talked to people who have been to Africa,
of course when that movie OUT OF AFRICA came out .
I've always thought it would be neat to go on a safari over there.
my cousin came over while I was there,
she came to Cameroon
she went over to Nairobi and took a safari around
close to Nairobi in Kenya.
how neat.
she'd always dreamed of doing that too.
that's great.
is there any place you would try to talk me into going to ?
It sounds like we've been to some of the same places.
it does.
I don't know.
I think the budget is really out of hand right now,
especially in this election year, I think that, there ought to be conversation about what
we are supposed to do about this.
it kind of seems to me that everyone's offering, their token little tax cut program, when it's
when it's just such a bad time for it.
as you said, mostly they are token cuts.
especially what, for instance, George Bush is offering.
The ninety seven cents a week .
ninety seven cents a week.
that's really not going to do a lot of good, it doesn't seem to me, to your average
middle income person,
Another ninety seven cents,
hell you can buy a coke or something for that.
mostly not actually a cut,
it's just a cut
I don't see this (( )) changing my lifestyle a whole lot.
That ninety seven cents really isn't going to do it for me either.
haven't really heard much of what the have said that have made a lot of sense to me either,
especially the Democratic candidates don't seem to be coming up with much that really sparks my interest as far as maybe that could do something to affect our budget
at this point.
in retrospect, Mondale or Dukakis that said, tell you right now I'm going to raise taxes?
I believe it was Dukakis
It was Dukakis,
I have a lot of respect for him .
that's better than George Bush who came out and said, No,
I will not
read my lips, or whatever *
ten months later he said, sorry, I, I can't follow through on this. *
it seems to me the budget is so out of hand,
especially now that they say, Okay, the cold war is over
we're supposed to be getting a peace dividend of,
of X number of billion, trillion dollars a year.
I'd really like to know where that money is actually going to go,
in my opinion, I don't think I'm ever going to see any of this dividend.
if they could actually put something together and make,
I'm not really in favor of large government social programs, either, because I feel that they waste
money, also,
with this peace dividend, it seems like you could set up some kind of
public works projects like they had in the thirties, or whatever.
I think that would be a great idea, like the conservation corps, where.
ex ,
it would help unemployment greatly.
in that way we could really focus on building the infra structure of the country.
infra structure
we have hurt ourselves incredibly (( )) last fifty years in the
cold war.
there's no way that we can ever really recover the state that we're in right now, we focus on the infra structure,
I surely don't hear anybody saying that right now.
agree totally .
it just seems ridiculous that it was allowed to happen.
in college right now,
So am I.
where do you go?
I U.
I go to Georgia Tech,
I had science class
a couple of years ago.
one of the things we discussed was, how the budget situation just got so out of hand.
essentially what happened was,
I think it was like in the, tax year of eighty one,
Ronald Reagan basically said, I'm going to give this much of a tax cut to the tax payers created ludicrous budget that he knew, that the Congress would not in their right mind pass
realizing that they were going to lose a, the Democratic Congress realized that they were going to lose a propaganda war, bye bye removing the tax cut
further cut the taxes and that, created the huge deficit that year which moved us into the trillion dollar deficit.
you just, (( )) .
just have to wonder what they're thinking in Washington.
it's just like they're playing chicken with a loaded gun.
more than a loaded,
it's a loaded cannon.
they've got trillions of dollars to spend every year,
they, in my opinion, don't do a very responsible job
of spending that money.
what really bothers me is it just seems like anyone were to say, I'm going to raise taxes and cut the budget and going to have to do some unpopular things, he wouldn't have a chance of getting elected.
no. *
it's kind of like Rome and the bread and circuses thing,
huh. *
where people just to have, whatever will make them feel good, right now,
the moment,
that's what really is getting me about what George Bush's stand on the budget is right now
is that he is saying, I am going to give you this ludicrous little tax cut so that you'll be happy come November, and you'll elect me again
I'm going to go on and just forget everything that I said
it doesn't seem that it's going to make much of a difference.
I don't know,
I don't think George Bush will make the American people happy with ninety seven cents a week.
not at all.
I just don't think it was a well thought out incentive.
(( )) , how do you feel about crime in the city?
You say you're from Atlanta.
I actually I live in the city
I guess it is a concern of mine, for my own safety.
find crime in Atlanta really (( ))
I live in Atlanta also.
that's right.
I think it is bad in certain areas, *
however I think, the area that I live in as high as it is in other areas city.
I think it seems that there's certain areas where, the crime is focused
what do you think can be done about the crime in the city?
I think what's been happening over the last several years it seems they've been beefing up the police patrols, trying to more guys, more cops, higher visibility,
they've had some impact, but not a tremendous amount,
probably, they need to try to increase community involvement, that sort of thing, I think (( )) .
I probably agree with that.
particularly in some of the housing projects, tends to be where a lot of that crime is focused
they've got to do more than just cops there.
They've got to kind of change the way people think about it.
that's probably true.
do you think Atlanta's as bad as most other cities?
I've been to,
I'd say probably in the ten in terms of crime.
it's nowhere near as bad as New York City
for example.
Probably as bad as Detroit.
I don't think it's as bad as L A either.
have as much of the gang problem as a lot of the other cities have.
that seems to be true.
if you've ever been to New York City
as you walk through the street on a given evening, you can see crimes being committed.
It's that obvious.
I don't know,
I came to the conclusion also that, if you are walking in a downtown area, where there's a lot of crime, a lot of that's going to keeping your senses about you trying not to look like a victim,
that's true.
With a big stick
(( )) just walk in a confidently,
looking around like you've never been there before
and you have no idea where you are.
walk down alley
don't get
just try to keep yourself out of a bad situation
there are times when you can't avoid all that
you're kind of on your own .
(( )) have you ever been mugged in Atlanta?
The only thing I've ever had, was I've had my wallet lifted
that was in a more of setting where there was a number of people around,
I kind of got,
I was much younger at the time
kind of a couple of people, they just took it from me without me knowing really
and kind of passed it off, so I didn't know who had it.
I've had that happen,
about it.
I've been pretty lucky about getting mugged.
I think I've only actually seen actual robbery with a gun
that's been about the only, I've seen in Atlanta.
I've had my.
that was just a guy running out of a store that he just robbed.
I've had my car stolen,
maybe that counts.
was that?
Was that downtown
that was up near Cumberland Mall area.
It's actually Cobb County,
it is Atlanta
there's a lot of car thefts in that area.
some people that have had their cars stolen.
about half the time recover them,
in various states of disrepair .
Up on blocks.
My friend had a V W Rabbit,
got it back his, dashboard was sitting in the front seat .
wrecked and some superficial type damage,
strip it
I got it back.
you're probably luckier than.
than most.
does insurance pay for the body damage,
was that all there was, body.
It was about three grand to put everything together.
They cracked the steering column of course, to steal the car.
crack the steering column
you pull the,
there's a pin in there that you can pull on these G M cars
you can start it up, basically pretty easily.
how do you know this much about, stealing cars?
after I found mine this,
how you like New Jersey?
it's pretty good,
You get, closer to the, coast here,
you do get a good bit of, smog and stuff, especially from all the, fuel cracking towers and chemical plants.
it's, fairly industrial?
when you get further east towards New York City it gets very industrial
Right, huh.
about, thirty miles west of there
you have, actually green trees and such that you
don't notice other part of
Yeah .
New Jersey exists.
Actually very,
go even a few out and you got, farms and everything
so you, relatively clear air.
I don't know about you,
I've always considered automobiles to be, probably prime contributor.
there's a lot of contributors,
it seems that automobiles would probably do more than their fair share of that.
there are a large number of them on the road.
They're all, going,
a lot of them are in relatively poor repair.
that's a big issue is,
a lot of states don't have a, inspection law
a lot of people out there without E T R, emission control systems on their cars and things like that.
where you do have the inspections, the inspection is once a year.
it's like,
You get the car that's in the accident
muffler falls off or something
guy keeps driving along for long period of time after that.
I guess, from what I hear, though, next year Ford is coming out with their electric cars.
They're actually coming out with the first prototypes in California.
I think also some of the, car companies are coming out with, gas powered fleets
so you,
natural gas powered rather than, gasoline.
hoping that comes along quick .
I was reading article in TIME the other day about the ozone layer and how fast that's going
I guess really disappearing a lot quicker than people realize
I know gasoline or to, carbon monoxide so much as the C F C s
is coming from cars, though.
I think contributor definitely.
the, car air conditioners is
one of the major leaking sources of, the, freon.
Which is one of the major fluorocarbons.
I guess right now primarily worried about is third world countries because I guess United States Russia have kind of taken the lead in terms of eliminating C F C production,
go ahead.
the type of thing there that,
the Third World countries are less industrial
they want to become industrial
they're on the different part of the cycle of the U S.
The U S used, all the air pollution stuff and air polluting technologies to get where it is today.
that's one of the arguments that the Third World countries have been using is, that basically they don't want to have to pay for our mistakes that makes any sense.
in terms of,
they want the right to make the same mistakes themselves to bootstrap them up to where we
got to.
are joining arguments,
I don't know,
kind of an interesting situation there.
is how quickly the ozone is depleting.
I guess the latest figures are up to fifty percent at the Poles
increasing even as the Equator as Florida and Cuba and those places.
it's kind of an interesting situation.
It's a real good one actually.
you also have the very close related thing of the, rain forest destruction
which is the main source of what's clearing out the atmosphere and
replacing some of the pollutants.
you don't get source of cleansing anymore.
you been in big cities a long time?
been in the east coast,
that's going between Atlanta, area,
you've got,
A ,
those are actually areas that are hit pretty hard, I would think.
as hard as some places out west because you don't get the, major pollution sources as you do out in Denver with the
Denver's (( definitely ))
that's one of the worst.
and Los Angeles and rest of California which is just terrible it sounds.
Denver's that real good, example of sitting in a valley, kind of like Mexico City does, I guess.
Mexico City is historically been one of the worst
world for that.
I've been pretty lucky,
I've lived in cities that really haven't had that much of a problem, although, I'm really kind of based in Orlando, Florida
there, you can tell that it's getting worse.
definitely it's not at a level comparable to Los Angeles or Denver
you can,
there, it's almost all automobiles because there's not that much in the way of
heavy industry, that would be causing it.
there's not that much in terms public transportation down there.
There is,
are you into the Cowboys?
God, no .
I'm not,
I haven't been,
I grew up in Dallas but I'm still not a Cowboys' man.
I like Philadelphia Eagles.
(( that ))
That's my favorite team,
that's all right.
now that Randall's coming back next season, I hope they'll a little bit better.
They didn't do too bad last season.
I hope they can do better.
How about yourself?
I don't know.
I kind of go back and forth, depending on whose really hot and whose not.
I guess I'm kind of a fair weather fan in a lot of respects.
I guess if I have, my druthers, I'd probably go for the Seattle Seahawks.
tha ,
I kind of like them.
That's another one of my favorites.
They're kind of,
my favorite totally.
I do like them.
I like,
Yo ,
Seahawks are good.
now that Steve Largent is gone, I kind of lose a little bit for them
To be honest with you, probably watch, college a little bit more than I do pro.
I kind of like college actually.
Quite a bit.
It's too much running for me college football.
I like
Is it?
I like the pros.
They do,
it's more high tech,
more, players are apt to act a little bit different when it's a job and not just,
That could be.
when you're getting paid millions to do it, I think they take it to another level.
I can see it's more, grunted out, run the ball type.
College football is a little bit different
You probably wouldn't like my favorite team in college then.
Notre Dame ?
I root for Nebraska quite a bit.
there's a running team.
Ye , .
that's boring for me.
take the passing teams any day.
definitely how you get into that.
find too much running gets pretty boring as well
four yards, three yards
eight yards, tackle.
gets kind of monotonous.
After awhile, prefer yard flea flicker every now and then to
juice it up a little bit
I think they're starting to realize that.
A lot of big eight teams that used to run so much. I think they're starting to realize that they just can't compete anymore.
It's high dollar.
money now.
Even college is all
can we get on T V
what's d ,
this World League is coming in?
that's getting ready to start up, right?
Have you followed that very much
not really.
don't think anything will ever take over the N F L.
I think
it's an institution.
It's like if we tried to start something to take over major league baseball.
it can be, it can take over part of it.
it's never going to be the next,
It can take over a small market share
nothing really,
(( )) it's going to take a little bit.
Some people are going to watch it
it's not going to be wide spread super bowl and every Sunday afternoon or anything,
never going to reach standard
I think I agree with you.
kind of interesting their claim of, world football.
when in reality, it's really Americans playing somewhere else .
I guess we're the only ones,
who take it that far.
Everybody else still nuts over soccer
Actually, I kind of like soccer.
never really played it
I like the idea.
an interesting game to watch.
That and rugby.
I've like to watch,
rugby every now and then.
or Australian rules football.
whatever you want to call it there.
That's some brutal stuff there.
worse than football as far as violence I think.
Those guys kill each other out there.
Rugby is something else.
Yeah, (( )) .
of stupidity in there somewhere .
That's just wild.
That's why it's big college thing.
Rugby is definitely big in college
it's something a bunch of fraternity guys can get together and get a good beer buzz going and do .
exactly .
Tha ,
I could see the feel for that.
it's fun to play.
I'll give it that.
It is fun to play. If you don't value your *
You've played it then?
very much.
I don't think rugby will ever be professional
No I doubt it,
Not, at
least not in this country anyway.
You can't stay healthy and do that.
That's a rough game.
It is.
I don't know.
I don't know how my Eagles are going to do this year.
Seahawks are an up and down kind of team.
They really are.
it's kind of odd. My roommate that I live with here, lived in Pennock, Minnesota. *
Do you know where that is?
I don't.
To tell you the truth, I'm,
a small town.
It's about two hours,
it's in central Minnesota.
It's a couple of hours, west of Minneapolis.
To tell you the truth, I'm not even really from here.
You just live there now.
up here for a year on an internship.
actually live in Florida.
Live in Florida.
Like the Seahawks .
E I .
I mean,
I've only been to Philadelphia twice
I still like,
who the heck is going to root for Tampa Bay, right ?
I guess I could go for Miami
I don't know.
I'm from,
I root for Nebraska
don't have a real love for Miami anyway.
I don't know,
guess, I get, into pretty much,
What do you think? .
I can't be terribly authoritative on what life was like thirty years ago, because I'm not that old yet.
I can be,
go ahead .
I know that,
obviously you look aspect social change.
video games.
You didn't have home computers.
You didn't have Xerox machines.
try to,
you go into business today
try to imagine the whole thing except running off of carbon paper
it's almost inconceivable now because the Xerox machines everything have become such a part of the way we live.
We fax
(( )) ,
We don't even wait for the mail anymore.
a business associate of mine talking about how it used to be where you would send things through the mail
you had to do something,
this was concerning the S E C,
if they had business to do, they had to finish it, three days in advance so they could get it through the mail.
now it's the kind of thing where you can work up until the last minute. *
Because you can get it there, *
huh .
a matter of minutes
through a fax machine
because of that, these quote, unquote convenience type items have made work that much more intense and that much harder.
you're expected to work on stuff up until the last minute.
You're expected to,
I recently read an article on just this, that said stress today is so much worse .
It should be less because we have a microwave
our grandmothers had to bake brownies
we can throw them in a microwave for two minutes
the more conveniences we have, the more that's expected of us
we have no down time.
we don't stop and wait for things to happen because we don't have to.
we keep moving.
We don't stop and wait for the things to bake and this to happen and that to happen.
We just hit buttons and keep going to the next thing.
we have no relaxation time in between
they say that's really a bad thing. That you need to learn a lot of ways deal with that and get time in between things.
that's good.
That's an interesting point.
I just think family lives have changed drastically.
I think that's ju ,
of course a part of it is technology.
our kids, where would they be without Nintendo and, their T V shows
no ,
some of that is really bad I think.
we have all single families.
So many single families now.
a lot of working,
both parents are working.
there's a whole big effect on our kids
not very many of my daughter's friends really are on their original mother and father.
I'm wondering what this is going to do in ten and twenty years.
there's that
there's the fact that, nowadays fewer and fewer couples are deciding to have kids which generally tends to happen.
the U S would be actually declining in population slightly if it weren't for the fact that we,
have continuation, large scale immigration into the country.
You're probably right .
I'm an O B nurse
that's never really occurred to me but interesting.
I never really thought about it that way.
I saw awhile back
I was huh
That's true.
(( When )) is this good or not good. *
We don't know that yet .
In terms of the long term America, in terms of the culture and everything, I don't know.
I don't know either.
next generation is going to be an, ex ,
ex , extremely large of the next generation is going to be, second generation, immigrant parents.
That's true.
they're going to be really struggling
I don't think that America is currently the type of environment where struggling up from the bottom is necessarily considered to be good .
it's no longer the accomplishment once was
not that many people are really trying I don't think .
That's kind of scary.
that's true.
it's just different
I guess every ten years it's just been very different.
Yeah .
I don't know what's going to happen.
I know what I'm seeing here at job is that people are having their children much later in life
tha ,
so that they're establishing careers
they've got their homes
they've got,
Okay Randall,
do you have any special interest in, space flight?
Ever since I was a young and, used to watch the old, Apollo missions going off in, classroom T V s.
huh .
I suspect a lot of people, got, turned on by those go off.
very exciting.
very much, to, be somehow involved in all that.
to, meet to it actually happen.
Of course, I've really wanted to actually manage to get into space someday.
that seems rather unlikely at this point, unfortunately.
What do you do now?
computer programmer .
Unfortunately, that can be done from the ground .
To bad, *
Made the career choice to get up into space .
I used to think younger that, by this time we'd have lots more stuff in space than we do now.
frustrating at times.
I don't know what you think about all that.
I'm kind of young.
I'm only twenty two
I'm not,
there's a lot that's happened in my lifetime as far as, with the space shuttle and all. Although plans to, go to other planets have somewhat been thwarted in comparison to, the sixties.
although I have a ,
kind of wonder form of, space technology, make it equitable, it might severely help the economy, respect that , there's endless amounts of research to be done. Endless amounts of resources
and whatnot,
it would be great
if we could find some way use that to boost the economy.
I've always, felt that, one of the long term solutions that, at least a few of our problems would be to have, some sort of, solar power satellites up.
that's a, singularly renewable resource any particularly nasty environment impact.
you can just get as much power as you need up there.
It's just a matter of how big you build it.
of course, the side effects of this is that you have to have, lunar mining bases and space stations and easy transport into space and no (( )) things that I think we should be doing.
the side effects of doing that which I think would be good, very, very good in the long run of the other things I'd like to see happen would happen also,
It seems like, there's,
you're talking about positive side effects then.
I understand.
that makes a lot of sense.
The only problem is, of course, that, that requires significant commitment
from people to actually decide they want to put things like that up there.
And they want to do the research
they're all nor ,
the only commitments that they're interested in making or even talking about are ones for flash value like, the trip to Mars.
Which would produce some useful scientific research and so forth,
the same money could probably be far better spent on, lunar bases and solar power satellite research and, so forth.
it would be being done for the, glitz and show factor
to get politician votes for,
we should eventually send to Mars but not just because it's glitzy to do so.
We should do it for the return we get for it.
unfortunately, that's not what I thinks happened . *
Least not,
would settle if the side effects were useful, like the,
the downside of that is do one of those, people say we did it.
Now let's
Now we're done.
now we're done .
No need
That's what happened with Apollo.
I think you're right.
I'd give almost anything to get into space . *
I would too.
was it John Denver tried to buy his way on to the space shuttle?
by what you said feel you're, privacy has been anytime recently?
not really.
the only thing that annoys me is when, people call and have solicitation calls.
That's the only thing that bothers me.
That's not really invading my privacy .
do you feel that yours is invaded?
I wouldn't call it invading my privacy by any means.
I would,
a lot of times though, you get those calls when you're sitting at home wanting to relax whatnot
next thing you know, someone calls and wants to sell you this or that
it's real hard tell them, that you're not interested.
you do tell them you're not interested
they still keep asking you, and keep badgering you about it,
that aggravates me.
I don't know that you could call that my privacy
if we don't want that to happen all we have to do is just call the phone company and say, look, I want my name unlisted or want my,
that doesn't work.
It doesn't?
dial sequentially.
They get your name from, if you enter any type of contest or anything.
you enter a sweepstake in the local department store for a shopping spree or something,
you put your phone number on there,
they pass your phone number on to another company.
the newspapers, they just dial randomly
people who already subscribe .
while I was subscribing to the paper, I got so upset at them that they
you call me one more time, I'm going to stop subscribing .
the local papers (( )) ask them to remove your from their list
you call up hours
have a special department,
they'll take your numbers out of their lists.
the, Orlando paper, refused to take it off of the lists
they call every month.
when you have more than one phone number, you get a call on each number you have .
Good grief.
let me ask you about this.
Here's something that, has been kind of concerning me lately.
My fiance received a bill from Lord and Taylor company,
department store.
She received a bill from them, that she had visited some sto ,
I think it was there in Florida,
maybe it was in Miami.
That, she had visited a store there
they had this bill, that she had bought such and such amount of merchandise, over two hundred dollars worth of merchandise.
the date she supposedly made this purchase, she was in Denver with me for Thanksgiving.
apparently what had happened is someone used her social security number.
heard recently this is a common occurrence where people are using s ,
they use Joe Blow's security number, and can, potentially ruin someone's credit.
If you know a person's social security number and their mailing address, and their mother's maiden name ,
you can, basically, become that, person.
if the purchase was made mail order, they should have a record of where it was shipped to
since it wasn't shipped to her address, she could prove, that it wasn't her.
if it was (( some )) coming into the store and stuff, then (( had )) find some kind of, document
wh ,
the signature,
they should be able to provide you a copy with that signature
if they can't provide a signature, they'll have to eat the charge .
y ,
if the pers , has, number, I'd be real concerned she's not, blacklist on, or something?
she won't be able to cash checks because most places verify through there.
She probably won't be to open a checking account or anything without a lot of hassle.
we got it cleared up eventually.
What happened,
Have you ever gotten one of those calls that is either generated by a computer or somebody going down a list
their either offering a service
they're introducing some new product in the area
normally when they call, you're either in the shower,
you're in the middle of cooking something
you have to stop everything to run to the phone.
that one that you're talking about.
That was the big one I'm talking about.
I work weird hours,
invariably just about the time, I'm going to sleep, the phone tears off the wall.
you are trying to crawl out of a half unconscious sleep and answer the phone,
of the recording coming on,
you hear somebody all ready starting, reading off a list of stuff that they've read probably a thousand times that day already.
That's true,
or the ones that generated by a computer.
It's just a computer voice that comes on the line.
Those are the ones that I really, really hate too.
I've even had some of them,
voice activated
you've got to say hello twice before they'll do anything.
sometimes get them on my, answering machine at home
I hate that when I've got a whole bunch of messages
I go through them
most of them aren't from anybody at all.
What I would love to see done to stop all of this,
we've got a thing in this country,
you can have your phone number unlisted,
I think a law should be passed to where any of these people,
I think it's great, that freedom of speech in this country and everything,
if they're going to offer these services, or these recorded message, everything, they ought to be stuck working with the phone book like everybody else instead of using a computer to go through and just go down every sequence of numbers for this certain area code and call them.
I have an unlisted telephone number,
I still get all of those calls
some of them are speaking in a foreign language that I don't even understand.
I do,
I really feel that's, an invasion of my privacy.
I agree with you on that particular subject there.
Let me see.
That's about, that as far as any other everyday occurrences,
I put a stop to some of them as far as the door to door, either religious groups, or people peddling products.
If I wanted their products, I would have either gone to the store to bought it,
I would have called for their salesman to come out.
that's true.
Living in an apartment complex though, really stop those people from coming around even though they put up signs out front that says no solicitations,
they still come up to the front door and, walk around.
usually what I do is I'll call the apartment manager and tell them hey, there's people coming around,
they're trying to sell something
they're from a religious organization
I really hate that.
I really, really do.
I had somebody come to the door about two weeks ago
gosh it was about nine o'clock at night, too.
It wasn't even what I would consider, family hours,
time to, start going to bed
it was somebody from, oh what was it, the, Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints,
I've read a lot about, that particular sect
I don't particularly care for it,
I especially don't like for them to come up to my door try and talk to me.
I agree with their right to, pursue their religion of choice, in manner they want to,
I think they should also respect the sanctity of the American home, whether it be in a house or in an apartment.
I'm on my turf,
if I want them there, I'll call for them,
otherwise, I don't want to know they exist.
agree with you there.
If they want to choose that particular religion that's fine with me too, as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in.
I don't like the way that they do it either,
it's their mission that they do it.
They go door to door
they go out into the public
they actually have the, teenagers serving two years in an army and two years in going around and doing missionary type work
I don't know,
I just, don't particularly care for that at all.
one thing that I feel really strongly about though, is, people coming up to my door, and especially religious organizations and wanting try and get me to join or, become interested in their religion,
I have my own.
the part about where you said the apartment complex puts up signs that says no soliciting,
I've even gone so far as to put that,
I've got a storm door on the front of the house
I've put, in,
I don't know how much clearer it can be,
it's a red sign with silver letters saying no soliciting.
another one that says religious or otherwise, cause I still get,
that's true,
I didn't go that far
I probably could do the same thing,
I don't have a storm door,
I'm sure I could rig up something.
I don't think that that would stop people.
like they see that word
it says go , instead of stop.
I wonder if there would be some way we could get these people to do this get their names, their addresses, and their phone numbers *
reverse it,
that would be technically illegal,
it would be harassment.
I consider an invasion of my privacy,
a harassment in itself.
that's true,
that's true,
what else?
I believe we've pretty much summed everything up.
I know,
I remember talked about something,
you started off and said,
let me think,
you talked about the telephone calls and people coming and soliciting and selling things at the door.
You said something else.
I can't remember what it was,
I thought yeah,
kind of touched a nerve right there,
to talking about the, people coming to you at the front door.
I'm drawing a blank.
is our five minutes up?
pretty close to it.
Pretty close.
I've enjoyed talking with you.
it was nice talking to you too Jim.
take it easy now.
Good night.
we've got to talk about music.
do you like classic rock, or modern rock, or which kind?
I guess the stuff that was done more in the seventies, because
not a seventies baby.
that's really when I grew up,
that's really what I like better,
is that kind of music ,
Is it disco,
or is it like,
not that kind of music .
more like, rock, like Led Zepplin type .
they can get the Doors and Led Zepplin.
that's cool.
how about the Rolling Stones?
I went to their concert last year when they were here.
How about, Pink Floyd?
I like them.
then some same things
I just didn't know that much about music
I wasn't sure what kind of music.
it's very hard
in the whole spectrum I'd rather listen,
I listen to heavy metal or classic rock.
kind of heavy metal are we talking about?
We're talking about call hard rock.
give me some examples.
for example, let's see, Bad Company,
Bad not bad,
that's not,
they're like, for example, A C D C.
A C D C .
have you heard of them?
Yes .
stuff like that.
that's not really hard rock.
I guess I didn't really consider that heavy metal.
think, when you say heavy metal, thinking about like Cinderella,
Cinderella hard rock, heavy metal.
I don't really care for Cinderella .
I like A C D C's okay.
for example, they have, what,
other bands consider it really hard rock.
It's like brash metal, which all they do is they have this guitar and they just bang at the guitar,
the guitar is set really low,
I don't really care for that too much, I guess.
what happens is everybody gets totally into the music
they start dancing around,
they just bump into each other,
they hit each other with their shoulders,
you knock people down,
what you do is, you also try to get up on stage and jump down on top of all these other people.
Is that the kind of music that you like?
I don't like that music.
what they do.
what some people call really heavy metal.
the difference, I guess, between hard rock and heavy metal is the lyrics also.
really, heavy metal, considered, the words heavy metal
you always thought about, suicide. And killing people and stuff like that.
just hard rock has,
don't talk about that,
they just talk about, life in general.
Like, Queen's Reich, if you ever heard of them.
Of course.
talking Queen,
is that what you said?
I said Queen's Reich,
you got to Queen also.
Queen was real popular when I was growing up.
especially, God, what is it, A Night At The Opera?
Don't they have a,
let's see, the one that they have whole opera singing in the background.
Bohemian Rhapsody.
was great.
I heard that the other day on the radio
I pumped it up.
I just love that song.
was a real good one.
they had,
whole record was pretty good.
they started going downhill like everybody else.
that's true.
They came up with some pretty weird stuff after that.
still around,
they've got a C D out,
wouldn't buy it.
what happens is, the old, whe ,
the old Rolling Stones.
I don't like the new stuff.
Of the Stones?
I agree.
That's the ne ,
the older stuff is the best of it.
new stuff's kind of more like, today's rock and roll, which I,
don't really care for today's rock and roll too much.
for example, I used to like old Phil Collins.
An old, Genesis? *
I agree.
what happened was that Phil Collins said, hey I can make money, a lot of money doing this,
he came out with, for example, record No Jacket Required.
That was good,
it was on his way of going downhill,
he said, I can make a lot of money just singing alone,
he came out with the Invisible Touch, with, Genesis
that really,
now, I hate Phil Collins,
I can't stand him.
I look at him
I say, you were singing at this time, and with these people,
you were great,
now you're singing all this stuff that, doesn't matter sing or what you record,
it's still going to be a number one hit.
what gets me mad.
you go see that new Doors movie?
not yet.
I guess I've been, it.
Have you seen it yet?
I saw it when it opened.
Was it really good?
it's like, I was watching Siskel and Ebert, *
those guys that criticize movies?
they both loved the movie, right?
They said the music's great,
it took me back to the sixties, and stuff like that.
one of them said, everything is great,
I'm going to give it thumbs down.
they go,
really depressing.
the movie is so well made,
the music that goes with it just picks you up,
born in nineteen hundred sixty nine.
for me,
you didn't really grow up with that kind of music then.
you learn to.
it's just that, sixties music's got a lot to say.
never found out what a lot of the seventies music had too.
I was like,
seventies music, disco, I don't like disco, *
I've never liked disco.
I bet you were out there with your bell bottomed pants,
that's true .
That's true.
I was more in the late seven ,
I shou ,
mid to late seventies, between seventy five and,
and, seventy nine, was more my era.
you go to college?
I'm going right now .
that's cool.
I didn't go then.
I graduated high school in seventy eight,
in seventy eight, rock was starting to get really heavy,
I don't know,
disco was pretty much dead by then.
that's what I mean,
disco wasn't really my time.
they always say that the seventies was the lowest point progression, ever in history.
About music?
about everything.
it's like, nothing happened during the seventies.
Everything happened during the sixties,
the seventies I don't know what they're called,
eighties are called, the progressive years, technology years,
because of all the computers and stuff.
the seventies got nothing.
nobody cared to name it .
That's kind of funny .
You're right.
I never thought of that.
The disco years, that's what they're calling them,
I know.
are gone.
Can you imagine big picture of John Travolta, ta da, what is it SATURDAY NIGHT FEVER?
Him just standing there.
that's a good example to look for in history.
from now on we're going to go when they took the first step on the moon, to nineteen eighties.
what happened in the middle?
Don't worry,
don't worry,
missing anything,
That's true.
except for Vietnam.
You know with,
that's why I guess, everybody,
it's like they don't want to talk about that,
they just, don't name it.
I guess it was pretty bad times.
that's very true .
let's see,
we've been talking for seven minutes,
I haven't even been keeping track.
all right,
I'm going to leave you alone.
are you doing?
Do you have a family?
in the middle of supper,
it's not a big deal,
I'm sorry.
I just left it.
it's okay,
I didn't,
somebody tried to call me last night
I didn't have my number yet,
I just got it today.
it's okay.
told them I'd be available during this time,
All right.
then, have fun doing this.
It is not,
that bad.
Bye, bye.
All right,
I think the topic was crime in the city.
I do not live in a city.
I live in a real small little place.
Where is that?
it's about thirty miles from Sherman.
North, south, east, or west?
It's north of Sherman.
you live almost in Oklahoma .
Not too far.
(( Yeah )) .
That's kind of ironic, because I don't live too far from Oklahoma either.
You know where Saint Joe is?
I've been through there.
I'm about eight miles south of it.
I had been through Saint Joe,
(( just as far as )) watching the news and reading the papers and all that, it sounds like the crimes in the cities are really getting bad.
seen those statistics and everything,
you know, what frightens me, is that, you put a half a million people out in the middle of the desert
with high tech weaponry,
the Iraqis didn't have a lot of high tech weaponry,
they had mortars and machine guns,
tanks and all that.
they didn't kill as many people forty five days,
they were intending to kill people,
that was their job, as they killed in Washington D C.
I know,
I know.
I know.
I think nowadays people murder is nothing to them,
I formulated a pretty radical theory over the last ten years, I guess.
I've come to the conclusion, that if a guy is convicted, or a gal is convicted, of a crime, rather than put them in prison, because prison's proven not to work, just let them go.
Say okay, you're convicted
just let them go
if they get convicted again, just kill them.
most likely that will happen, won't it, that,
I think that the best hope to eliminate crime, as we know it today
is to eliminate the criminals from society.
If someone is known to have been in prison, they can't get a job.
You know.
They can't be accepted into society.
if they're not going to be accepted into society, then (( everybody's )) going to become sociopathic.
who's to put the limit on it?
I was watching a thing last night, up in Washington State.
If you get convicted of, sexual offenses, on a regular basis .
some of these guys are forty years old and got ten convictions.
they're still let out on the street after one or two years.
in Washington State, if you're a habitual sexual offender, they just don't let you out.
you serve your prison term,
you go into the mental hospital,
if you're pronounced cured, they'll let you go.
they may find a cure for it,
there is no known cure now.
kind of thinking,
in other words, something the first time, that's not real bad,
(( Hey )) , people make mistakes.
to go ahead and let them go,
if they do it again and they really need to face the consequences then,
(( use )) that
there's other consequences rather than killing them,
you could,
always make them the slave of the people they committed the crime against.
At least they might get some benefit in that,
if the people they committed a crime against, feel, at some later date, that these people have learned their lesson, okay, they can free them.
with the technology we have today, you can put a collar on a guys leg that will knock him down if they leave the property.
it will just in incapacitate them.
you can put a collar around a guys leg that will prohibit them from committing any kind of prohibitive act.
putting them in prison, my God, that doesn't work.
apparently not,
look how many years they've been doing that
look ,
you look at places like Turkey.
Turkey has the death penalty,
for just about everything.
if you get convicted of, drug trafficking, they just kill you.
You get convicted of, heinous crimes, they just kill you.
there's no two ways about it.
you look at their society
the repeat offenders are very few.
you look at our society, almost everyone out on the street that has been in prison, has been in prison three or four times.
Three or four times,
That is true,
I know.
the way to stop that kind of behavior two fold.
One, you need to make it illegal for both parents to work while the kids are under seven.
think that's very important.
very much so on that,
if a parent has proved to be unfit, for any reason
take the kids away from the parents.
we are what we teach.
that's what our society becomes.
We have,
We have just a bunch of people,
I've lived in environment for quite a few years when I was doing construction work.
these guys, they come to work every morning
they're stoned to the bone.
their so high, they could fly up to the top of that building *
they work all day,
they go home
they smoke their dope and drink their booze and shoot their drugs
when they run out of money, they go down to the corner store and pop the guy on the head and take his money,
they go back to work on Monday.
the kids of these people (( )) .
they just think that's the normal thing to do, don't they ...
They're sociopathic.
I worked in a first grade classroom for one full semester
these kids were more foulmouthed than I've ever been.
I had one kid threaten my life,
In the first grade .
Threaten my life.
Told me that daddy's going to whoop me to death.
know .
they flipping me the finger and all that
I just said to this kid,
I said, you got two choices kid,
you can step into mainstream society
you can die.
you will eventually be killed.
totally aghast at a what's going on.
I know.
I know,
I work in school.
that's something I do
really is
(( I'm like you ))
astonishing what the younger ages know,
they react to what they see at home.
If they see violence at home, that's what you're going to get from the kids at school.
It really is,
that's kind of sad.
you can see it in the work place,
Used to be when you had a personality conflict worked with it
you got through it.
Now, people get fired,
what's even worse, is they promote them into a position that they can't handle and let them get fired.
one thing or the other.
You look at another kind of society like the Japanese.
You put that many people on that small of a space, they've learned to live together.
It's in their culture.
one of the things that's in their culture that I really think the major corporations should pay attention to, is the fact that, while Japan was becoming a great power, financially, the people that worked for those companies, worked for the same company they worked for at sixty five, as they did when they were eighteen.
the company, took it upon itself to find a position for these people.
If they weren't fit for the job they were hired for, they didn't just can them,
they made a position for them some where.
You look at Frito Lay.
My wife used to work for Frito Lay as a typist.
transcribing stuff into the computer.
she could type about one hundred and five words per minute,
she don't like it.
She just doesn't like to do that.
she will.
her preference is to be in an office situation where her job is ...
what kind of hobbies do you have?
I do a lot of cross stitching and painting, when I do have spare time.
I like cross stitch too.
I love it.
I just have a hard time finding any spare time lately.
That's my case also.
I've got a new born
there's just no time.
Have you been cross stitching long?
several years.
My husband is even interested in it now.
He likes to help me design, projects that are,
a little more customized.
looks at the pattern
he says how do you get that from there to the material .
Not that hard.
it's not.
I really enjoy it.
once you get started on it, I love it. *
I do a lot of my own patterns also.
In fact, I did one, BILL THE CAT, from (( Glenn County ))
that, was a real good one to do.
It was tough,
Do you have any others,
is this mainly cross stitching?
I do mostly that,
not very artistic really for like painting and stuff.
now I don't know.
I'm still trying to get all the D M C colors .
really .
I've got the kits to put them all in.
I don't have them all yet
I got to counting the other day
I think I have, what was it two hundred,
I got to thinking the money that I've got invested in this is,
can add up quick.
keep an inventory of what I currently have,
then when I start a new project, I go through and see
just buy the colors that I need
of what I'm low on.
I see.
now can I improvise with adding and using another color instead, what comes close.
Because a lot of them are similar.
A lot of times you can do that.
I think, I
the pinks, there's like forty two different shades of pink.
Good grief .
there's lots of pinks and greens.
Pinks and greens.
There's lots of shades of greens.
the colors,
I just love all the different colors.
They had quite a few new ones come out last year, that they added to.
you don't have much spare time either?
not lately .
I just started a new job and trying to get acclimated there.
that does take some time.
if we're trying to get acclimated having a baby,
(( )) .
How old?
He's seven months old.
just into everything,
there's not a spare moment.
I wouldn't trade it for the world.
I've been trying to do some bibs for him.
And, work on his Christmas stocking.
We missed it last year,
hopefully this year he'll have one.
last year he was a little bit young for having one.
He wouldn't have enjoyed it anyway .
. (( )) .
You would have
If it tasted good, yeah.
All he liked was the lights this year,
that's neat that you like cross stitching also.
kind of strange that we got the same call.
It's a (( )) call.
I'm sorry.
Go ahead.
that's okay.
Okay ,
I've been doing it for probably ten years or so.
I just started about, five years ago, I think.
it is peaceful,
it is relaxing to do, once you find the time to do it.
huh .
There's also a couple of large projects, baby afghans,
I got one done
I think to be in high school before I get finished.
On that,
(( Bear thing )) .
is it one of those afghans that I've seen in the packages large squares?
bought the cloth and the pattern for it.
I didn't buy a kit.
I've seen the afghans in the stores that are designed for cross stitching.
It's that cloth.
It's cloth I think.
it has the borders and everything already.
Those are pretty.
Number one turned out just great,
the lady said she couldn't believe that they know that I had done it in the colors, that they had decorated the nursery
I didn't even know it.
that's a (( )) .
I gave it to her
she said how did you know those are the colors we used.
I said didn't .
That was a good (( )) .
It worked out that way.
That's great.
now I've got the material to do an afghan that I just never did get around to finishing it.
I like those.
Those are pretty.
(( )) , it's for your daughter to use.
She said, I know she doesn't get to touch it.
She hung it on the wall.
my, grandmother, made us a couple of quilts for the baby,
I was like, I don't want to mess those up.
Yeah .
there just too nice.
you don't get many hand made quilts anymore.
I've enjoyed this.
keep up the good,
keep up the cross stitching.
You too.
All right,
bye bye.
Bye bye.
I was trying to think about some of my favorite people that I liked in music
recent, right.
I like Gordon Lightfoot,
do you know who he is?
Yeah .
the Moody Blues,
I like to listen to piano music a whole lot,
Willie Nelson.
you like variety.
Sort of easy listening because you like country
not all country.
I don't like that,
when they start,
I don't know.
I just like Willie Nelson I guess because he's such a character.
like some of his songs, though.
they're not so sad country all the time.
They're just kind of sweet sometimes.
they're not typical country where they're just, my wife left me, my dog left me, .
My truck is broken down.
my truck's broken down
my house just burned down,
a guy,
have you ever heard of George Winston,
he plays piano.
I think he's dead now,
he plays wonderfully.
I like that.
are you, do you play the piano,
you just like it?
Very badly.
I've got a piano,
my mother got a piano
vowed that someone in the family was going to learn,
we all had to take lessons,
I was the one that did the least poorly,
she gave it to me.
it's sitting here mostly taking up space,
sometimes it makes you feel good to sit down and play it.
It is real relaxing.
it must be fun to be able to play it
if you can play tunes that people can sing along to kind of fun, I think.
I play the flute
not many things you can play sit there and sing along to
you can't sing along either
I like a lot,
I like classical music just because of the,
when, don't play,
I like jazz music
so do I.
What's that?
Forgot about that.
What's that?
I said so do I,
I forgot about jazz .
I like a lot,
I like, is it the New Age music, with, the,
I don't know if you've heard Neurotic Collection.
we've got about five of those.
I love them.
I love those, too.
They're just so relaxing.
I'd never heard them before until I went in a music store
you know how you put the headphones on and listen to it
heard a piece
it was just so wonderful.
even my eleven year old boy loves to listen to it.
Isn't that nice.
it's nice when you have a piece is peaceful,
that everybody likes,
it, it, it has pieces that are uplifting,
mostly relaxing
feel like, there's anything you have to remember, as far as singing a song or something like that or interpreting what they mean
you can just sit,
you know those little booklets that come along with it
you can just see the things that they're trying to show with music.
little boy has gotten so into it that
he's identified people that have written certain songs,
then he buys the pieces that have that person.
on it.
I see what you're saying.
I don't even know who did which ones,
he does.
can't identify them either.
I just like them.
which ones come next,
I don't even know their names.
Most of them I don't know their names of the song,
can identify them.
I like that
like classical music.
Were you in the band?
I was in the band,
So was I.
I was in, chamber music groups and stuff,
I'm used to pieces
I played classical flute,
I didn't jazz flute or anything like that,
relate to it, I suppose .
the older stuff, too,
I like Chicago
, let me think who,
I like, Hebert, *
you don't know Hebert Laws,
Hebert Laws a flute player,
he's a jazz flute player
I like, Chuck Mangione,
do you know who Chuck Mangione is?
I like Chuck Mangione .
Trying to think of all,
what's his name, plays the trumpet.
I like the Moody Blues.
Did you like them?
I like Moody Blues.
like mostly the older groups I think.
c ,
we do have,
I like Simply Red,
we got Simply Red.
I figure all our C Ds that we have what I really like .
I like Breeze,
I like the group.
I think just because like
If I'm going to listen to that kind of music nowadays, easy listening. *
what type, Simply Red,
I've never heard of that.
Is it just instrumental?
got people singing,
got people singing
it's got whole bunch of people singing.
You know, how many people are in Simply Red, Stuart ,
he can't hear me.
don't remember how many people,
got men and women
it's nice,
I mean it's pleasant, music.
It's not where your ears to hear it.
Chicago where it's got that much instrument to it.
it doesn't have, all the brass and everything.
my husband is telling me we have to hit the road .
We're going to go to Commerce and see a friend.
C And,
you must live in this area.
then I'm going to go to Sulphur Springs.
where are you?
We're in Sherman.
we're in Garland.
You're going to Commerce?
Yeah .
For East Texas or something?
Just because there's a friend up there,
not because there's much else .
they're having a lot of recruiting this week in all the different areas.
That's why I was just w ,
For colleges?
East Texas is recruiting for,
they're not c ,
their fall semester
doing a lot of that in the area.
They're not going to recruit me anymore,
I'm through.
No more for me.
No more,
do you do?
right now I'm just a homemaker,
I'm going to school, for legal assistant
that's what I know,
just nothing basically .
Are you going to go to East Texas for that?
I don't go to East Texas.
I got a degree from T W U,
I'm really interested environment,
I don't want to be a lawyer
I said I think I'll go back to school and see about being a legal assistant.
That'd probably be pretty interesting.
I was summonsed down to the courthouse last week.
They had summonsed eight hundred people,
about four hundred showed up,
it was for a murder trial.
This guy had supposedly, strangled this woman and stuffed cotton toweling down her throat and up her nose .
Anyway, this is happened in nineteen eighty three.
they had us fill out a long questionnaire.
We stayed till about one thirty
they're going to call the ones that they're interested in from the questionnaire two to three at a time
the trial won't take place until June.
that's how it works.
they say it's going to last about two to three weeks.
this guy in front of me said, I can't believe I was summonsed.
I was an investigator
I was tailing the woman that was killed.
then I have a friend at school that has a boyfriend that's a lawyer
he said that in Plano had hired four guys to kill her husband
the one that's accused was the one that actually did it.
she has since taken off with another lawyer who had been, getting cocaine from his client and then selling it,
he had skipped bail
they finally extradited him
he's going to testify for the State against her so he'll have his sentence reduced.
this is the man that was in front of you?
well they'll,
weed him out.
the investigator.
got off right away.
I wrote that down on my questionnaire that he'd told me that,
I figure that that will make me biased
I won't be chosen.
Hopefully .
not necessarily
there's probably something else that might make you.
but not necessarily be taken off the jury, not be accepted for
pretty much a lot of people would know about it, know some of the different things about it
might weed you out some other way.
if this was a capital crime you don't believe in
The death penalty. *
if you don't believe in death penalty, you're not going to be picked at all.
No. *
I said that, I could believe in it in certain instances, but it hard to levy that against somebody.
they would have a doubt about you,
the punishment is instance, then you're always going to say, not gui ,
not going to want to have him have
I was picked for another murder trial before
gosh it's so hard because, everybody is wanting to go on and get the sentence done,
if you're trying to hold out, there's so much pressure on you
you've got to come up with a decision.
especially with something where it beyond a reasonable doubt.
You have to find whether they're guilty beyond a reasonable doubt
it's like, do you really feel that sure about,
personally, I don't have any children.
I'm twenty two
I'm doing my Master's at N C State
children wouldn't be very convenient for me right now.
would they,
how do you spend the time with your children?
both of mine are boys.
eight and eleven
they're into sports
as a matter of fact, that's what we're doing tonight .
are you doing?
Baseball has started.
they play does the eight year old play baseball?
we start here at, five.
his league do they have a pitcher,
do they have a standing ball or a machine, or what?
Up until,
it's coach pitch, until you get nine
which my little boy will be nine in May.
he's going to be with, regular pitching
my eleven year old, of course, is pitching.
used to play soccer when I was that age
up in New York,
we're into baseball,
it seems like soon as that over with we get into basketball.
We even have peewee basketball here.
there's always something.
on the weekends.
Do you do sports
do you go out?
If we're not doing sports we go somewhere.
like a week or something when they have school off?
In the summer or like in the Easter time, like around now?
usually in the summer time.
where do you go?
Different places every year.
you been out of the country?
No .
first, they always say, get to know your country first before you leave,
lived in places,
when I lived in I never went to the Washington Memorial,
when I went back to visit, I went to the Washington Memorial.
I've heard, we have a couple of friends that goes to Washington quite often,
that must be the thing.
They really hadn't either.
They went to the Memorial,
when they go, it's on business
it's not really just to getting to sight see.
a beautiful city.
I bet it is, too.
the problem is , first time I went out of here, they took me to Las Vegas
that was the most boring place on earth.
now my husband and I, we go different places.
we usually kind of stay close.
did you go to Disneyland?
I don't know,
let's see,
when I was eleven I went also to the Caribbean.
was fun. That was, *
then after that, I,
my sister lives in Turkey,
when I was like fourteen, fifteen, to Turkey.
this Christmas, I went to Turkey.
basically, it's a,
for the past couple of years, I,
since my parents
I'm from Argentina,
my parents live down there.
all the traveling I do is alone.
we were never much of,
a very, family thing, made, go skiing in Vermont or something.
a lot of fun.
what happens is we used to fight a lot,
there's never much of a thing.
one of those hell family vacations.
my husband also, we're involved in everything our kids does
my dad died, when I was less than a year old
I always just had a mother.
I always thought, when I have kids, I really want to be involved with them.
my dad, wanted to do was get money for us,
he could buy us material things.
Material things,
that is,
to me, it's now I'm twenty two,
I still feel,
it's we never threw a football or something
the way I was brought up,
he wants me now,
he wants to be best friends now
Best friends, now.
it's very hard for me
it's like you grow up to be twenty years old,
it's always the same man
suddenly he sees that he's getting old,
he wants to be best friends
it's like, I can only express myself so much,
everything which is very hard to change that all of a sudden from one year to the next and say, I'm sorry,
It's I love you
let's go out and do things together when I don't feel like it,
that's that whole thing that he'll say when,
I've seen my uncle and his family, does everything together,
his kids are,
when his little girl was five years old and everything, would go to the beach,
she could go to sleep at two in the morning
I was brought up the same way,
it doesn't matter what age you have,
just so long as you can get up to go to class the next morning, you can stay up
does is, when he gets home, he separates his work from his house.
you have to
you honestly do.
Now I have friends that I love to death,
they have children,
their children does anything,
we have to take them, and,
to do it.
that really gets kind of aggravating after a while
you're saying, I work full time too,
something that,
my theory is, you have kids and all want to do,
what I'll do is,
you might have problems,
it's not your kids' problems
you got to try to be with them as much as you can
thing that, they would ever happen to have a drug problem, suppose, that they could feel comfortable coming to me and saying, I got a problem
that would make any parent feel good and bad at the same time,
first of all you're coming to me
let's see how we can get rid of the problem,
that's very hard to do,
once you're best friends with your parents, then, I think everything go a lot better.
I agree with you very much so.
Now, we waited several years before we started having children because we was still in college,
we knew time wise, money wise, too
not have been a good idea to had them then.
father was raising before he had me,
it was,
you're trying, to support, four kids,
it's pretty hard
told him, listen you could have had a lot of money if you would have only had two kids.
He says yeah,
I wouldn't have you,
I go, yeah,
you would have a lot of money .
That's right,
you can't take this money with us, though
that's how I keep looking at it.
four children is expensive, which I'm paying out of state tuition.
I'm paying, three thousand,
what is it, two thousand six hundred dollars for one semester.
people say, it's expensive to think it's college,
everybody would be a little bit responsible,
It costs five hundred dollars a semester suppose.
Now they go to a state college
they live at home
it costs two hundred dollars for books,
seven hundred dollars a semester,
a lot of people can spare that if they planned ahead,
it's like, if you plan a year ahead, you can probably save up seven hundred dollars
one thousand four hundred dollars to send your child to college,
What are you learning to be?
excuse me?
are you wanting to do after you get out of college?
my husband's into, computers.
now I'm looking for a job before they have to send me back home
since I'm an international student, they want to send me back to
my dad wants me to go back.
you don't want to?
if you go back there, then you can never get out.
you don't have any money get out.
I was thinking, Oh my God, I go back there,
I get married there,
now I have kids there,
I'll never leave the place,
Then you'll never leave.
I know,
what happened to my brother.
He came to school up here,
when he went down there,
he was just so bad off,
from not being able to stay up here that
his life just went down the drain.
maybe something will open up for you.
I've been calling a lot of companies.
some of them are interested.
at least for a year and a half
I can work,
may ,
I've enjoyed talking to you.
All right,
same here.
bye bye.
Bye bye.
All right.
on this subject, I really hadn't had to deal with putting someone in there yet,
my mother's always been administrator of a nursing home
I've always been involved, in one.
How do you feel about them, since you've
kind of been close to that.
I can kind of see both sides,
I really can.
nursing homes to me,
I would personally be the last resort
if I had to put someone in there.
I've had a touch of experience.
My, dad had emphysema and got to the point where mother couldn't
if it's a have to thing,
take care of him
she put him in,
he wasn't there very long before he died
I guess, the one time that I saw him there, as far as the surroundings, that seemed okay.
we kind of thought that maybe they just wanted to give him some medication to sort of,
keep him real out of it all the time
that's always kind of bothered me.
I kind of think that's true, too. I guess, because it's so under staffed, *
that's like everything else, though.
I have a sister in law who runs a nursing home,
I've never actually been there
I know that she's the kind of person who wouldn't allow, a lot of the
horror things to take place that you hear about.
I'm sure there are, aspects to it
that aren't really desirable.
I know,
I've always,
my sister's involved in one also,
I really think they really do a wonderful job.
still there's those little things that happens,
there really is, which
I think, it's a wonderful place, if it comes to that, if you just can't take care of them any more.
sometimes you don't have any other alternative
that's it.
family and friends are usually,
family's tied up with
Other things.
their own lives and things, and usually working
it's hard to,
I think when the time comes, hope to have the time to really look around,
and pick one that I really think my mother would be happy at.
I think that's important, too,
in fact
I do too.
there's a,
Outside's awful deceiving sometimes
There's one close to where my mother is,
in order to get in, you have to be able to, walk in on your own,
in other words, you can't be in, too bad a shape
to start out with.
if you deteriorate, they have a separate section for those who need care
Ca ,
all the time.
it's always,
they have a long waiting list, too.
there's always this feeling of, golly gee, you've got to be able to walk in the door,
you can't wait until you're too bad off
you don't want to go do that when you don't have to
because you have to give up your automobile or whatever.
everything you worked so hard for all your life
if you're still capable of driving and doing those things, then you feel like, gee, isolating myself
here for no reason at the moment.
hard one,
it is a very nice nursing home.
Now there is some really nice ones.
There's also, some private ones,
of course, I would never be able to afford to put my parents in something like that,
that's the problem
that's way out of my reach.
the expense of it all is,
hate to see is when someone has a small amount of money, and they go into one of these places and they just eat it all up immediately.
those who don't have money can go in and get the same care.
the very same,
I don't like that aspect.
I think there's ways around it, though, that,
they could put it in one of their children's names or something
still, a lot of them doesn't feel comfortable doing that.
it's their money.
That's right.
that's how I feel about it, anyway.
I've talked to my mother about that several times lately,
said, I want you to have control of your own business.
what if.
my mother's seventy now,
naturally she's retired,
she's still on her own,
my mother's, seventy five and still has her own home and everything.
I think that's wonderful,
I really do,
just as long as they can,
on the other hand, I've seen some people go into the nursing home and just so happy
That's true.
They have a lot of people around to do things with.
they're not lonely.
Some of those places have wonderful activities and things, lots of stuff going on.
they'll take them places
I don't know,
it's not all bad
I guess once you get ill, then, you really have some problems if you can't get around
and do things.
I really don't know what the other solution would be
I really don't.
when the time comes look around before I decide on one for my parents
really do,
I have been raised in one,
there's lot of things I know to look for.
I don't think they'd want to go where they used to work, either
I really don't.
That might be kind of tough,
It really would,
like I said, my sister's still in it,
I really don't think my mother'd want to be there, either.
it's been nice talking to you.
you too.
I guess we'd better get back to work,
All right.
Bye bye.
route of way we do things, how about the ladies go first?
All righty .
I, have a four year old who will just be entering public school next year,
I'm really just starting to get involved what's out there and how they do things.
as far as the system as a whole, I really don't see a problem with it.
I do see a problem with graduating people can't read and are not, productive in society or productive to themselves
I think that's the main problem at this point.
How about yourself?
All right.
I in Plano, Texas
today we're not even suppose to be in school because way the taxation and all that crap is, there really legally isn't any funding for the school systems in Texas today.
take, professionals and put them in situations, they have to make decisions based on money to fund public education,
they can't get their finger out of their ear long enough get that major subject in line,
something's wrong.
I think here in Texas mainly that they're not serious,
they're more serious about what the salary should be for senators than they are for the level of education should be for children.
I have a one year old
more opinionated about the observations the true facts,
it's just a shame to me firemen, our policemen, and school teachers are the three least paid utilities, that have the biggest impact to our well being.
That's true.
a real issue with that.
I think that if from every year pull in the, test that the last three years, ten, eleven, twelve take,
you see that their education is below the norm throughout of all fifty states.
They're not saying that something's wrong with the educational system here in Texas,
I have a real concern about that,
as a matter of fact I'm very content to spend my daughter out of state to college in Virginia,
verses having her go down here and not learn anything,
I think there's a big concern
the new, will do something to fix the problem
I don't know,
they've got to quit worrying about, the, religious, overtones in our textbooks and get on with teaching the product.
I think they get bogged down in a lot of small issues that can blow up,
not really get down to teaching what's important.
Teaching these kids, (( )) really the basics is what it comes down to.
I was astonished to find out across the United States in all public schools it is not mandatory for them to take phys ed.
Is that right?
the kids nowadays don't even know the president's fitness education program is all about,
they don't have to do sit ups and push ups and all that crap we had to do when we were going to school.
I remember.
I talked to a thirteen year old last night who to, one of the Plano high schools or junior highs, I guess,
she said that she had a choice,
she could either have taken tennis, or weight lifting
she choice to take weight lifting,
over the regular gym,
give me a break,
the kids sit there
drink cokes and eat popcorn lunch
C and,
then go out there and lift weights and don't learn anything,
problem with the whole system.
They need to put some sternness back teachers and let them be able to, get the old whip out and get some discipline.
then it comes down to what you said before though about them being some of the lowest paid service,
employees that there are,
I used to,
yet they're so important.
I used to date a girl who taught English at ninth grade level.
I was absolutely flabbergasted at paid.
she was young,
still it's the principle.
Of course, if she got her Masters degree it would all be different.
it's hard though because then you start talking taxes
taxes Lord forbi ,
that's a bad word .
Lord forbid, taxes.
Goodness gracious, if we would, plan our expressways a little better, that ten dollars for the bridges and the roads, (( we'd )) cut that in half and get some teachers we might have us a problem .
There's an idea.
Maybe I should run for office, .
Run on that then, no income taxes in Texas,
That's true.
I'm in Texas too,
That's funny,
that's funny.
that's about all I have here.
me, too,
think we both agree there's some problems there
Yes, *
we'll, maybe do our small part to fix them up.
I've enjoyed it.
All right,
you too.
Bye, bye.
do you have any hobbies?
right at the present time nothing real special.
I kind of like gardening
I'm kind of into camping and, vacationing, that sort of thing.
I don't have any real serious,
I'm an avid gardener,
(( I think you're )) ,
I consider that a hobby.
I don't know,
they were suggesting, handcraft things which,
I guess that's a really hobby,
I think anything that you enjoy,
it doesn't really have to matter,
it could be working on cars could be your hobby really.
(( Really ))
I kind of enjoy doing that a little bit, too.
(( )) . *
guess if you make money at it, it becomes a vocation .
Yeah, *
I don't know,
I told my husband, I said, you go out some to work on the car,
it's not worth getting all mad and fighting and hollering at each other when it goes wrong.
I says, you go pay to have someone do it.
Yeah .
it always seems it goes wrong when you try to do something.
I guess as far north as you are if you like gardening, you've still got a couple months to go, haven't you?
right now we, start our seeds inside.
that's right,
you would,
We'll start them inside
In cold frames or whatever the,
we usually start them right in the house.
My sister tries to set up a greenhouse on her back deck
a wind storm come and knock it down.
she's had really good luck.
next month,
actually, start it in a couple weeks and you can get your plants outside, pretty much the end of May,
you can leave them outside.
You might put them in the ground just the first week of June
we can put potatoes in the ground in the middle of May.
lived Texas and New Mexico most of my life,
I did once,
I spent one winter in North Dakota,
remember that it was on into May before it really started warming up,
really close to Lake Champlain, which is in the Champlain Valley,
two weeks ahead of everyone else out on the outskirts
that kind of moderates the weather a little bit?
We are a little lucky.
You're at,
my brother lives ten miles from here
he gets frost
his crop gets killed.
You're right across the, lake from, what, Plattsburgh?
from Plattsburgh Air Force Base.
a cousin that was stationed there, Plattsburgh for a while.
remembers lots of snow .
Plattsburgh's kind of a,
depressed economically.
When you go across the lake,
I don't know why we have so much going for us,
I really don't.
. *
I'm, just wrote my resume up because told we might be facing layoff over at Digital
layoffs recently,
when we got hired here, no, no, never any layoffs, never, never,
Yeah. *
now we're looking at serious,
a technician.
When they start getting rid of technicians,
working for T I, Texas Instruments, down here.
I interviewed with them.
I didn't want to go to Texas.
Even though my, mother's people are from Georgia.
I guess we have to get back to hobbies since,
we're getting to where,
Stick on the subject.
we're straying, I guess,
interesting thing that I do is with, gardening,
my sister grows flowers that you can dry,
you can make arrangements
you can get real handy with the hot glue gun.
we made some really nice Christmas wreaths with, dried red flowers and dried white flowers and, eucalyptus.
what eucalyptus is?
it's sold in the hobby stores and nurseries.
it's got a s ,
It's got a kind of a peculiar smell to it
at first I'm do people like this,
is kind of a nice smell after a while.
People put them in,
I didn't realize what it was for a while.
I'd walk into a room where some of that,
I'd wonder what is that,
. *
one day realized that it was eucalyptus.
Yeah, *
it's, like a fad thing.
don't know.
never heard of it,
in the last five years I've used so much of it that,
I hate,
Is that the stuff that koala bears eat in Australia or something?
it is.
Maybe that's why they're so slow.
I guess they're stoned on the stuff or something.
looks really stuff.
, yeah.
the greatest stuff in the world, though.
It's, jeez,
make all kinds of things with it.
We make all kinds of things just with dried flowers.
almost want to start a business doing it,
I'm so, timid when it comes to starting a business.
a big step,
it is,
especially with creative and the crafty end.
after a while you make some stuff,
then you start looking at it,
go, boy, is kind of ugly .
. *
I know someone who does a lot of woodworking for a hobby.
he does it, believe it or not, to get out of the house, away from his wife,
he's a seasonal worker,
he works in the construction.
up here it's almost a pattern,
you see your fathers do it,
then their sons do it.
What they do is they work construction,
Yeah. *
then they get laid off for like twelve weeks in the winter.
this guy was going nuts,
his, son built him a garage and got him some, I don't know what the equipment's called, but planers and things
shapers and planers and
him up,
all kinds of furniture for, his kids,
he makes, little kids' furniture.
He gets right into it
There was a program on T V down here on the educational channel here a while back about a lot of companies of one and two guys, up there,
this particular one, I think, was in Maine and New Hampshire, little towns they'd be in,
they may be the same kind of people you're talking about.
got twelve weeks to do something,
making furniture and just, things like that during the winter
they go off and do other things during the summer.
it's a,
it's a really,
good thing because it's keeping him sane,
it's keeping his marriage ,
he's getting on in his years now.
not that old,
he's getting to the point where he needed an extra boost,
do something like that.
it's, hard work.
I couldn't imagine taking and trying to make something out of it.
He d ,
That would be really t ,
He dowels everything.
it's all got to line up.
I don't think he goofs too much,
I don't much scrap around.
Now our temperatures down here, we're starting to get pretty consistently in the seventies and eighties
(( God )) , I'm envious .
as far as, planting outdoor stuff, matter of fact, tonight trees out back tonight,
really nice,
Is it going to be,
out tonight.
Almost hated to come,
Is it going to be really dry?
now I always plant trees in the fall.
I don't know why
cold weather can kill them
these were,
I guess,
trees wintered.
I know where they came from.
They come out of nurseries mostly in Missouri and places like that.
they come down here
they'll sit in the nurseries here
they'll go ahead leaf out.
what I'm planting or actually transplanting is already leafed out.
that's good.
I guess say you can plant them in the spring or the fall, (( all )) .
Mostly, I think in a place where it's really cold they do it in the fall,
let them winter
through the fall,
down here, it's done both ways.
just kind of depends on planting,
all the shrubs and,
when you have time to do it .
My sister does, flower gardens.
She gets right into it.
She spends lots of money on them.
I guess a lot of people do that.
They landscape their whole house with flower gardens.
(( Yeah )) .
She's got just a small patch of lawn and just flowers and (( mulch )) all over her lawn .
normal kind of flowers, there's very few of them that will really do well.
Everything does real well here in the spring until about, first part of June
sets in.
It gets, ya ,
June, July, August are,
most of kind of plants barely staying alive, let alone make flowers.
Do you have a lot of shade trees around your house
is it,
we're in a relatively new area.
We're kind of out of, the natural tree area.
We're kind of up
you don't have a lot of tree coverage?
on a slope.
we don't have,
where we are right now there are very few trees.
to make,
this was pasture land,
hill here a little ways there are parks that like jungles,
They're really,
grandmother passed away, but where aunts are they have these huge pecan trees,
they just shade everything.
Now where is this?
it's in Georgia.
In Georgia,
right outside of Macon,
it's just a,
idea of the south is,
when I think of Texas, I think of nothing but, no trees and just grass .
I tell you what,
East Texas,
there's two parts of Texas, East Texas and North Texas.
Atlanta and Dallas are almost identical in every way, weather and everything.
The two cities are identical,
if you were familiar with Atlanta,
it's that dry heat?
not dry at all.
where is it,
is awful .
Houston is really humid.
It's humid.
ironically enough I'm sitting here with a cast on my leg because I resumed an aerobics class the night before last.
I ripped the ligaments in my right ankle.
Exercise is not supposed to do that to you.
That's what the nurses kept saying as they laughed all the way, down the hallway.
Do you do anything on a regular basis?
off and on,
off and on.
Right now I've been off
I've been going over to the fitness center.
that's a good,
three times,
My husband's a T I er in the (( )) unit here.
I try to go over there at least three times a week,
I try to walk, at least five times a week.
Do you, when you go to the (( )) ,
I have to ask you,
if this is getting to (( )) ,
we're not supposed to get too particular,
I'm just curious,
when you go over there does it bother you in terms of how things are arranged, either at the Dallas location or the Spring Creek, in terms of, of a weight orientation, weight lifting, et cetera.
I've been going to Spring Creek.
I haven't been to the Dallas one now in, a couple of years.
At least since they've redone it, supposedly redone.
I don't really,
not that great,
I go to the Spring Creek one on and off.
my husband's working over there
he just goes to the Dallas one.
I just don't,
it's just so much weight lifting.
Even the Spring Creek one has a lot of weights in it.
that's true.
is that what your into
I've used the Nautilus equipment.
And the bikes, and stair climbers, and stuff like that mostly.
I don't use the free weights
I like the tread mill and the stair master myself over there.
I like those too.
the pool when it gets warmer.
the pool,
That's great.
Yeah .
I know.
what I did was I went to a jazzercise class in a new location in Richardson near where we live in North Dallas,
long story short, I hadn't,
this is really a stupid thing that happened,
they have like the gymnasium flooring
they had about three feet of linoleum around the perimeter in the back where I usually stand
in any class like that I go to.
Instead of having that level,
they had a chrome strip that wasn't level,
it was about four inches deep and then about, oh a seventy degree angle.
my goodness.
as we were jumping around or doing something I just jumped up and came right down on it.
The orthopedist called it a, basketball injury where the ankle just rolls under you, and it snapped.
I know.
We went to (( )) , whatever in Plano,
the emergency room was like a bad comedy show .
the doctor said, you didn't do anything.
There's only a one in five hundred chance that the radiologist will call you.
That was Tuesday night,
Wednesday night the radiologist called me at work
I was on crutches,
he said, I think you better call an orthopedist.
we went to one
he just put a big old cast on it.
Put a big cast on it.
for about four weeks.
Four weeks,
I like aerobics,
I'm not so sure that,
not that much, though.
I've never,
I was off for about six months too just for some other surgery I'd had,
I was pretty much in shape walking
this is one of those things,
like this orthopedist said, he said you'd be surprised come in here with things like that because they are active.
I was real embarrassed,
I felt kind of stupid .
. those things happen, though.
they do.
I guess I'm glad, that, nobody really noticed,
I guess you could say.
I got up and started jumping on it again.
that did a lot of good,
I'm sure.
I enjoy aerobics,
I do it because I like it,
I like the music and
that kind of stuff.
I like the music,
I've been unable to do that, because I hurt my foot about five years ago.
I broke my heel.
that makes my foot,
how'd you do that?
In aerobics?
actually I was up on a ladder, and, fell off.
Leaned the wrong way.
when I came down I hit with my full weight on my foot, but on concrete.
What'd they do for that?
Did they have to cast it?
to go in and do surgery.
They put a pin in it.
would not be good.
as I permanently damaged cushion under my heel
the normal cushion that you have there.
I can't do any jumping up and down because it makes it hurt.
that makes sense.
are you, in terms of other things, not running, but playing a little bit of tennis, can you not do stuff like that at all?
I haven't tried that.
I don't know.
thirty years since I played tennis.
It's been,
Mostly into just walking and stuff like that.
That's probably the safer way
I notice in aerobics a lot of the women that don't look like they shouldn't be doing certain things
I'm always afraid they're going to fall over and have a
Yeah .
there was my ego when I went ahead
I went, I can do that
half the time though I don't jump half as much as,
I'm real tall,
I'm not heavy,
when you go easy a hundred seventy at my height,
you need just take it easy.
when I see some wo ,
I just don't think it's healthy
all that pounding all the time.
really good for your knees.
that's the other reason,
I don't know,
this was just, I guess, something freak that happened to me,
I wasn't familiar with the,
the floor was uneven.
it was completely,
it literally,
the two dissimilar were not level.
at first after it happened I thought, maybe that's a handicap access,
I said no,
that's just the way it's constructed.
my husband being a T I engineer,
I said a few things to him when I got home,
I said, who has engineered that? .
Really .
sounds you, like
one thing that I like, swimming, you like that a lot?
I like swimming.
Do you like that, what that voice said, *
do you like to exercise because you want to or because you have to?
it because I want to,
it makes me feel better.
That's how I am.
If I don't do it I just feel like I don't have as much energy.
it's real funny because if you,
it seems like when you exercise and expend the energy that you'd be tired,
it's the other way around.
It curbs the appetite and helps with the calories and all that stuff.
I need all the help I can get.
That gravity factor,
I know .
It does get you.
Like that orthopedist said to me, he said, don't worry Diane,
you're at thirty something,
you're on the upper side.
He said that, don't worry,
he says, even if you weren't doing anything to happen to you.
thanks a lot.
I'm not that heavy,
I'm not heavy,
maybe ten to fifteen pounds like any other human being.
I said, why do I feel like I need to start pushing myself more.
he goes, human nature .
you see these little girls in these little bitty things,
they're all like twenty one years of age .
luckily at (( )) there's a little more diverse clientele.
That's true,
they do.
Except for the guys that lift the weights.
They do intimidate.
I try to go real late or real early before they get there .
There some things I'd like to try,
sometime when I ask, I just feel like, boy, am I stupid or what.
that's one thing I like about the Spring Creek place.
At least at night and on weekends is real helpful.
his name is B J.
there was some girl there.
I've been there maybe a dozen times.
I actually like that site better than the other one just because of the type people that go to.
It's terrible.
I don't know if the Dallas location,
it just seems that,
sometimes I feel like I'm in a singles bar .
that's true.
I haven't noticed that up at Spring Creek.
I haven't either,
I just,
it's not that far of a drive
I'm glad they did that.
you're not missing anything at the Dallas renovated site.
It's not
at all anything worth talking about.
I thought maybe one of these days I'll drive over there and check it out.
if you don't live near there that's not worth,
I live in Richardson,
it's about half way between the Spring Creek and Dallas site.
That's actually where this happened to me, out in, I say Plano,
it's all the same to me.
Richardson, over on Campbell and Park Hill there's a new recreation center.
as we were doing it, too, everybody noticed that there were all these big guys of assorted nationalities.
(( )) walked out,
I was one thing,
great, I have purple tights on,
they're going yes.
in general like dance a lot,
aerobics is something I'd hate to give up.
kind of said something to me about probably not as bad as your foot,
he just said to me, maybe you ought to try bicycling
you probably will for a while, because it's going to be real tender.
He told me eight to twelve weeks.
Not anything,
I said, but you're only going to put the cast on for a couple of weeks.
He said, yeah,
that's just,
they tried to put me in some kind of immobilized walker, because he doesn't like to put casts on when it's warm.
I just,
the more they tried to get my foot in the more I screamed,
I couldn't,
I know what you mean.
adjust that.
more about this stuff than I do, obviously then,
Not fun .
you're walking okay now obviously,
you can,
I have a slight limp from it,
it matches one if I have one on the other side.
(( )) .
Yeah .
anything else about exercise we can talk about.
other than I need to go.
me too,
me too.
I need to go actually get something to eat here.
It's great though,
I really do enjoy it.
thank you, Sandy.
Bye bye.
I don't know,
do you do a lot of camping?
my husband and I haven't done a whole lot of camping,
bought a van last year,
we were hoping, to do some camping in the van,
we did go camping in Oklahoma.
last year a tent,
there were two other couples with us
there was, state park.
(( )) ,
it was really nice.
up here some of the state parks are really nice
some of them aren't,
some of them are pretty rough.
just have outhouses,
they don't have a shower room or anything,
(( yeah )) ,
some of them are really nice
they have showers and full bathrooms,
I don't know,
been camping a couple times
I'm not a real avid camper,
a lot of people I know are,
(( )) .
don't like really camping in the rough.
I like the little necessities like having electricity available and running water and showers and things like that.
(( )) once to a (( lean to ))
there wasn't any electricity on the camp site
it was all right,
we only spent two nights there.
I wouldn't want to spend more than two nights.
I wouldn't want to go for a week,
be much.
two nights is good.
especially there was a little store close by,
it was pretty nice.
the campsite that we went to was an area that,
it's right on a big lake,
there's a lot of boating out there,
went up there to hopefully be able to get on the water a little bit
too, cold.
was pretty early in the year.
up here you got to wait until, (( until the water warms up )) .
it's not that bad
it's still pretty chilly.
I don't know,
a tent
I (( fluff out )) in it, in the backyard and stuff,
this thing about camping that bothers me is you've got to pack everything
another thing is the thing seems to get,
it's dirty
you can't keep the dirt out of the tent.
I don't know
we have a seven year old,
it's pretty funny,
stay out.
we have a dog
that's just about as bad as a kid .
(( boy, he doesn't go in and out of the tent a hundred times )) .
And use it as a play,
they like to play in them.
I don't know how you can really keep, the inside of a tent clean.
(( Yeah,
I don't know )) .
Other than, taking your shoes off right before you walk in or something sweeping it out everyday, it's really hard keep the sand and dirt out of it.
what we're just going to sleep in the tent and hang out at night, so, no going in and out, what he wants to do,
we had brought his friend along, was play in the tent.
It was like, no, this is not working, ,
you can't do that,
you get the tent all dirty.
you get it all wet,
we were at a beach site, too.
did you have another, a big tent, looks like a sitting area type, like a two room type (( )) ?
I was just thinking of getting one those for the yard because they are really nice
up here quite a few mosquitoes at nighttime.
we don't really have a problem with that, in these areas,
when in Oklahoma when we camped I really didn't notice a problem with bugs.
I noticed that,
I know that I said, that's,
lived back east before, they,
(( They're )) terrible,
they're really terrible.
there's this one campsite, that it,
just some of them are known
there is one that's out in this big lake
it's, mosquitoes are terrible
other one (( that's )) more up in the mountains
it surrounds a man made reservoir
there's no bugs,
that's the whole thing that everyone told me,
going to go to, River State Park,
(( )) that place is great,
there's no bugs.
we were having a really big problem up here in certain areas,
we were really affected (( bad by it )) , but really got it,
almost destroyed in one town, because of the mosquitoes,
they're so, bad.
a really nice area,
I've been there before
couldn't imagine living just sixty miles north of them
you can go in the daytime, all right,
the mosquitoes come out.
just the very second,
it's really strange.
must, work on that,
it gets cooler when the sun sets
they all come out.
taken any of those, what do they call this, (( )) lights,
have you ever used those?
I never really noticed how effective they were,
because that wasn't really,
I bought them, (( ))
I really didn't get to use them like, there's mosquitoes let's turn them.
We just sort of lit them.
we weren't bothered that much by mosquitoes,
we didn't really contribute it to that.
I think in an area that's really thick with mosquitoes,
I can't see all this little, smoke buckets I call them,
(( )) they work,
they're suppose to work really well.
I'm in my paperwork here,
that's what I do when I wait for a phone call,
I get in my paperwork . to find my most important parts.
if I'm going to go,
I wish was an avid camper
I could really talk about like gardening or something,
you can talk about that a lot,
I do want to go again.
We just moved
I don't think camping,
maybe in the backyard,
I don't see going on a camping trip probably until next summer.
like to go camping cross country,
I just got married less than two years ago,
we don't have children yet,
it's easy for you to go.
easy to pick up and go, and, s ,
we have a van
we can just throw a couple of sleeping bags in the back of it.
God .
it's not really, I guess, camping the way picture camping in the tent
I don't know
that sounds that kind of camping, it really does.
that to have nice vehicle where you can have everything in it, plus your tent.
my brother has a real nice pop up.
tows it behind his truck.
got three kids,
his kids will sleep in the truck, back of the bed.
they sleep in the pop up.
kind of nice
they're also, flimsy when you really look at them.
when you get inside they're really nice,
everything's really,
then when you look underneath them, it's just got these little wheels and this (( )) little axle,
it's like, my
a big windstorm it would pick you up.
he did have a problem, when he went camping last year in Beavers Bend,
storm came in
it started raining really heavy
trying to flee the campsite,
, everybody was getting stuck in the mud.
do when you get really violent storm like a tornado,
just stay in your truck.
I wouldn't stay in the,
theirs was so bad,
they were so close to the water that the water was coming up,
they had to get out of there.
then, were they successful?
it took them a little while?
decided that, that was enough camping for the weekend.
did they get stuck?
they ended up getting out.
They ended up helping several other people though stuck.
they evacuated it .
campsite was evacuated.
people that had fairly sturdy, vehicles or whatever if they had like a Winnebago or something and they were farther in away from the water, I think they stayed.
everybody that was real close to the water ended up,
it was either that or their truck was going to go floating downstream.
I know like (( )) to get right on the water,
(( yeah,
by the )) campsite, it's so,
(( )) we have lean tos up here.
I really like them,
like I say, they're more (( sturdy )) than anything,
They have them right at the campsites?
lean tos.
they're pretty nice,
it's like a little house except the whole face is open,
the one time that we went, we got one,
it was overlooking the water
it was a big embankment,
I wanted to get one right on the water.
(( )) we had an electrical storm too,
neat sitting there watching it,
it was raining,
when we called (( )) home, everybody said, we were worried about you in that storm ...
All right,
I have a lot of different teams that I like keep in touch with,
of course, Texas Rangers being one of them,
you can't live in Dallas without,
Well what are the others?
I originally came from Saint Louis,
the Saint Louis Cardinals are one,
I moved to Kansas City,
a tendency to, teams when I go to a town.
it's helpful.
I lived in Kansas City for a couple years
I adopted the Royals,
I lived in Houston for two and a half years
I adopted Houston Astros,
I've got quite a few.
do you keep up with the statistical stuff?
get into that too much,
once in a while, I will keep touch, with maybe, who's in the top five of hitting, or something like that
I don't get into, how many errors somebody has or things like that.
a guy (( )) show that I listen to going to work in the morning
who does,
it's essentially trivial statistics
they've got a st ,
it's a statistic that has to do with winning and losing one run games.
I've heard of that one.
apparently the Rangers last year, won a lot of one run games.
I didn't know that,
that's supposed to be a real good statistic,
it is
reverse indicator.
that's true,
they don't have the offense get out, or to have more runs,
argument is
it, it's one of these statistical,
gee, how can you draw a conclusion from it,
they find that, there's a connection between that and how they do in Spring training the following year.
almost like the law of averages catches you on the following year.
Which means that if you have a good year winning games that the following year, you'll have a bad year.
they've looked at I think twenty three teams,
the, statistics are something like twenty one out of twenty three.
It was,
which means the Rangers are going to have a terrible year,
Which I was kind of leaning toward anyway, to tell you the truth.
I don't know,
think of Incaviglia's loss.
I kind think it was necessary,
i , I don't, I'm not big, pure power hitter anyway.
I don't like these guys that get up there and swing for the downs every time.
I think a player ought to hit a home run if he's got the pitch to do it,
when you get two strikes on you, your swing a little bit,
if it's a perfect shot, go for it,
the strike outs were a big problem for him,
supposedly what I heard, he was not much of a team player anyway,
an interesting concept, though, when you look at,
I was reading in the paper tonight that the Detroit Tigers are going to sign him.
the point I guess,
I don't understand strategy of how baseball works,
it seems that, they can sign him tomorrow,
he could go in the team the next day,
they put him in the lineup
he hits a home run
all of a sudden he becomes a hero.
that's true.
all he has to do is hit the ball,
you're not, a ,
all he has to do is one, hit it once.
It doesn't,
he can swing a couple times, (( ))
if he fouls it up he can swing as much as he can.
It's concept how they do it.
I agree with you
part of what, baseball needs more of.
I guess what bothers me that when you go, you wait and wait and wait
finally a guy gets up there and blasts a home run
that's all the game is.
I'd rather see the ball hit around and have the people,
another point to that too.
They said that he was horrible batting men on base.
having somebody get up and hit a solo home run run, obviously.
if you can't do it with men on base, there's something definitely wrong,
got to be able to get the two and three run home runs, be able to, score enough runs to be able to win day and age,
well how do you think the Royals are going to do?
I think the Royals will do okay.
several pitchers that had badly years last year
these, cycle pitchers,
pitch one year bad, one year good, one beer bad, one year good.
Saberhagen has won, supposedly the Cy,
I think he won Cy
he's very much due for a good year.
that's a good question,
I don't know how Oakland's going to react to being, swept in the World Series last year.
They could very easily, take that as a challenge. Which is the way most teams do.
just go out and not give anybody a chance to beat them,
I go to Saint Louis from time to time
watch their sports up there
they're certainly intense about the Cardinals they,
baseball life up there like football is down here I think.
actually live in Saint Louis?
I lived in the suburbs of Saint Louis,
everybody does, right.
that's true too, .
I think that's all that they have.
I had a friend from college that lives in,
(( )) it's I should say on the west side,
everything's on the west side.
out that way,
I went and visited him,
anyway, it is interesting.
how are the Cardinals?
Do you still keep up with them, or someth ,
definitely do,
in fact I've got family that still lives up there.
everybody up there, they're not going to have a good year because they let too many people go.
I've been following Spring training
they're one of the best teams in spring training so far.
is that a good indicator?
can be.
really kind of depends looking for.
In other words, in Spring they were looking at all their kids, like a lot of them do, then it really doesn't give you any indication.
if they were, playing the people that they're going to play, then that might be pretty good indication,
not a great indication because there have been teams that have just, come out and just won all kinds of games in Spring and then gone on a, fourteen game losing streak in the first of the season
what I think is remarkable is,
it seems that what you really need to do to win though, is to have a team that has reasonable talent and has some people that have real breakthrough years.
the question is how do you forecast that,
You can't.
bet on who would be in the World Series, it would be really tough.
best thing that you can do is go with, the players the talent to do the best years. And, that they hadn't had these, gigantic, career years yet and,
and just kind of assume that, of them is going to break through eventually,
think they said the Reds,
this last year, I'm not sure that they said that they had that many people having career years.
they may be even this year.
when are the Rangers going to come through th ,
that's a good question.
the Rangers pitching problem
whether or not they can fix that or not is going to be an interesting question.
They're doing the right thing, though,
they are going with their farm system.
They're letting their farm system, build up and stuff like that
is there enough money,
that's part of it,
that was part of Skip Bayless' argument.
I don't know if you read Skip Bayless,
local commentary
his argument is that the ownership is not inclined to lose big money long enough bring in the big dollars.
that's probably true.
agree with that?
considering what I've seen in the last, two seasons, I'm beginning to agree with that,
you don't have to spend the big money, as far as I'm concerned win.
You just have to spend it if it's necessary.
In other words if you've got a player on your team who's helping your team, then keep him there.
Don't let him go away.
I think that's really what's been hurting, the, Rangers.
didn't Kansas City put up quite a bit of money for their
spent more money,
pitching (( staff )) .
last year than any other team league
they were, toward the bottom of the league.
it's like I said spending money doesn't guarantee you, winning a pennant.
It really doesn't,
maybe part of it the,
if I owned the team. I think you'd like them to do well
the question of losing money that what, did Steinbrenner actually make money on the,
you got me.
think that there's coming to a point real soon when ticket prices are going to be to the point where the average fan can't go
once you do that, you lose everything,
it, it's a little bit like any other sport,
When it starts costing you fifty or a hundred dollars to go to a game
guess as we get older, probably going,
if you compare to go to sport,
you go to a rock concert,
even a performance, opera or the symphony or something,
if, i ,
often do you do that.
I would, I would think baseball probably feeds on a number of people that can go out there, several times a,
the whole point.
There are so many games a year that they've got to have repeat customers.
They can't afford not to,
that's one of the things that I think Saint Louis has done,
ticket prices are, I guess as high as anybody else's
or another they, attract, so many people from,
small market
yet they attract as many if not more than other cities,
don't you think are older fans there.
don't mean older,
the fact a better established and that city is more, of a ...
what baseball team are you familiar with?
I'm only a little bit familiar with the Red Sox because I lived up in Boston for a while,
come on,
no Texas Rangers?
after that, if you asked me that I wouldn't have been able to tell you if that was football or baseball.
I guess they paired two women together on this call for a reason which is something we can think about later
I understand a little bit about the Texas Rangers.
I know George Bush threw out the first pitch hitter (( )) (( bounced off the ground ))
(( yeah )) ,
I heard a joke on the radio yesterday he didn't design the patriot missile system,
the (( radio's )) kind of cruel,
think, (( this chain )) that must have been on President Bush to bounce the first pitch off the ground,
for a man to do that, any man.
I don't care if you're President.
at the same time, I don't know, it's pretty far to throw that far .
I couldn't do it.
I know
he's a man
come on,
men know how to do that, right?
(( Right,
he's )) supposed to be able to do that.
I know so,
I felt kind of sorry for him.
(( )) that must have been hard on him because he's just a person
I never (( )) ,
a major owner here.
I didn't know that.
the owner
it turns out my Mom said that he's part owner
he must own the biggest chunk
that's all you hear about is, if, about Neal Bush I think is his name.
I even know his name because he's on the news a lot,
I never had to watch the news like some people (( hour and a )) half a day or anything.
I've been watching,
my husband's French
if I've been watching the French news,
when I watch it.
(( It's incentive )) ,
had a story where he went to visit some little, elementary school students, and stuff.
I saw that.
Did you see that, where asked him for proof of who he was,
(( he said his )) (( )) .
I want to see your driver's lic ,
I know
(( see a )) credit card .
I don't,
you're not President Bush.
I know
he said
(( yeah,
it does so fast )) ,
I heard it on the radio.
I heard the audio portion on the radio in the car
I didn't see it
It was so funny to see,
it was a really cute little kid too.
I don't know,
I can tell you,
that much about it.
that the Mets opened, I think, two days ago,
my brother was supposed to go to the opening game,
I couldn't tell you who pitched,
they won,
the Mets won.
Did they?
not my a lot, *
somebody else lost,
maybe it was the other New York team which is the Yankees,
I don't even know if they're still New York Yankees,
That's so stupid that you all have two teams.
or (( )) New Jersey.
That's really stupid.
they can have them play against each other.
I know.
I think it's still the New York Yankees,
(( )) I thought they were moving to New Jersey .
This is how much I know about baseball.
The Texas Rangers, lost, I think.
I know that last year
we did go to a baseball game last year.
We got free tickets because parks cars at The Mansion at Turtle Creek which is one of places and stuff.
he's their head chauffeur,
is this funny, as they're parking the cars the valet service.
(( Right )) .
he makes good money too doing that,
anyway, someone gave an Iranian a tip of four Rangers tickets last year,
the Iranian couldn't,
he didn't want them,
he gave them to Alan,
Alan and his (( Dad )) had plans that night
they gave them to us,
he decided that some wealthy man tipped this Iranian,
With baseball tickets.
(( )) with baseball tickets,
we ended up with them, right.
we were,
(( Yeah )) (( )) .
walking up
I looked at my husband
I said, what (( a tip ))
I bet these are really good seats
we ended up on first base right down there on the floor,
called us at five
the game started at seven
we just threw everything together, ran over and got the tickets and walked
we took two kids with us
nobody brings two children in these seats, because,
Because they're fancy seats and stuff.
you just sit down
all the girls were all dressed up (( ))
I just was there,
like I'm loaded,
I'm here,
it was just kind of funny
we got to sit by first base
if (( they did hit a )) ball I would have been afraid it would have knocked my face in,
I know I'm always scared of that whenever I go to a game.
I rarely go
we went last year
is impossible,
when, he does football leagues and baseball leagues and all kinds of stuff,
if there's a game on, he's watching it.
that's all there is to it,
he's glued at the T V.
I'm glad my husband's not like that.
I'm glad my husband's not like that either,
I'd kill him .
My brother's like that
he goes to a lot of games,
not a real lot,
he tries to go,
then my father got us some tickets,
my brother's wife and my husband and I went.
Last year we wanted to show my husband what a baseball game was because,
being a non American you want to see what a baseball game is like.
he describes it as, you sit there in a crowd,
it was nice weather and stuff,
it wasn't a real problem,
you sit there in a crowd,
you're waiting and waiting and waiting
you eat hot dogs ,
we made him try a hot dog, (( )) ,
That's funny.
you sit there
you wait for the longest time really bored,
all of a sudden something happens
you happen to look the other way during the time,
You miss the whole thing.
there and wait for something exciting to happen
when it happened he missed it,
That's funny.
and didn't understand it
it, *
Where is he from in France?
(( )) ,
which is the, sort of (( O strip )) east to west, eastern part,
(( that )) ,
friend in college from Strasbourg,
he's not that far,
he was sort of in between Strasbourg,
and Paris.
my cousin lives in Paris
she's lived there twenty years.
is she still there?
(( Saint Claude )) is that sound familiar?
Saint Claude,
we used to,
that's one of the, entrances to the (( periphery )) to get in and out of the city.
it, it sits right at the limit,
I (( )) exactly where she is.
we met in Paris.
That's neat.
she (( married ))
they have twelve children.
Twelve children?
She has twelve children.
my God, the poor woman.
She looks gorgeous,
she's gorgeous
she just liked having kids
she's thin
Were any of them twins?
(( )) four or more children are thin,
I'm not kidding you.
You probably can't afford to eat if you have more than (( two of them )) .
I have a friend now that has seven.
they're all eight and under,
and nine and under,
they're all real young,
they're just raised (( right ))
that's what God's told them to do
they're not condemning you,
if you,
we only have one child,
(( )) on bad or anything which is good because it would be easy, I'm sure, for them to do that,
you get a (( conviction )) like that
you think everyone should have it.
I'm real proud of them because do that at all.
You go in their bathroom
there's ten tooth brushes in there.
I always give her a hard time (( )) who's toothbrush did you really use this morning .
how do they afford to even have the kids,
we're expecting our first baby,
almost any day
They live (( lean )) for one thing
they tithe
they (( ))
it puts (( )) a whole in your money bag, *
we don't honor God with this (( )) portion
I think that helps a lot.
I think that's the key, in (( sales )) last year
he just works a normal job.
He probably has an income of thirty five thousand,
last year he made (( ))
that got him a bonus of twenty five thousand which allowed him to pay cash for a full size van.
(( He loves )) God,
it was the biggest thing that any one in this company had ever done,
he got to do it
God just really blesses him in ways like that,
do trust God because, I don't know, kids are a blessing
think of blessings as nice furniture and things like that,
kids are just as much of a blessing (( inside these )) material things
it's a different kind
a lot times people think, I'm not blessed
I have an old car.
you've got five kids,
you're just as blessed, probably more, because if you follow this,
there's a good book called WHAT THE BIBLE HAS TO SAY ABOUT CHILD TRAINING,
by (( Richard Fugate ))
a lot of wisdom in it.
the kids at (( BIBLE )) talk about anything
is different than anything else
psychology doesn't address it.
it just comes out of the BIBLE
they don't quote you the proverb out of it,
the things that work in psychology other the years that they've proven to work, they just come out of the BIBLE
so this book it just really (( )) all these things and how to train the child
they're not going to be a curse to you when they're thirteen.
to train them so they're going to be a blessing
they do that
just live lean pretty much
shop at Foley's and stuff like that.
a lot women (( die or shop )) at Foley's
(( things )) ,
don't know what Foley's is .
It's like a Macy's,
kind of store,
it's pretty nice
everything's pretty expensive
you just can't do that
you don't go to baseball games as much
you get pictures like we did.
what I mean?
You do these fun things, in other kinds of ways
I know Manhattan's real expensive
it's kind of a different situation because you're probably living in an apartment, right?
that makes a really big difference.
still it's just as hard as having, that,
(( )) your cousin could have a baseball team with twelve kids .
(( )) church (( )) softball leagues,
they're not all boys
right now we don't have a girls' league because I'm the one that's supposed to start one
I just haven't gotten around to doing it.
I keep saying we need to have one.
They go, okay, then start one.
(( )) everybody (( )) wants to do it
God's sitting on my heart
I just hadn't gotten around to doing it,
they could really only have four members on the team.
I think they only have four (( boys )) .
I don't even think they have but two old enough to play yet.
(( then )) you didn't believe me about her kids *
so good.
I'm not kidding you
she does work with them
it's a commitment
what they're called to do.
I have a,
most of my friends,
I admire someone that can do that,
I really can.
I know,
I do too,
friends have three or four kids
they feel like, that's (( really )) why God (( ))
some of the people in our church use birth control
some of them don't,
I had my tubes tied
this is a good subject, isn't it?
something that you can really talk about.
I don't know what we're going to do about it,
it's certainly something that has a lot of things to talk about.
when they say the Middle East,
it's such a big area
there's so many different problems there.
what do you want to concentrate on.
It doesn't matter to me.
I'll tell you something,
have a sister in law from Israel,
they're really quite, arrogant about it all.
believe that belong there
they've belonged there forever,
the Palestinians and the Arabs are, more or less,
consider them second class.
they're really quite arrogant about it.
know if that contributes to the problem.
how did they feel about United States with Patriot missiles,
sure this is the one time that the Israelis are really happy to have their big brothers, the Americans,
huh .
I didn't really talk about that with her.
now lives in, Switzerland.
when they were living in Israel, Palestinians, come in an,
nothing but really servants for them,
they really treat them like second class citizens.
don't really want them around
they like them around because they do all the menial labor and such.
really do,
they look down on them.
I don't know, being,
live in, Vermont
being up here we pretty much treat everybody, as someone that has merit, even if they're poor, or if they're Hispanic or if they're black.
We give everybody pretty much the benefit of a doubt because we don't see all the crime and, all the hurt in the big cities,
lived in Washington, D C I think I'd have a different attitude about Black people
I've heard that the, they're terrible,
it's just like it's a dog eat dog world.
here, my black friends are professionals
they don't go out and abuse drugs
send their kids to school
they really encourage them to go to college and stuff.
it's just a different world.
I live in San Antonio
fifty percent of the population is minority.
I talked to someone about San Antonio,
they said that you have quite the problem with, the ghettos,
I don't know,
do they call it the barrio down there.
That's the barrios
it's I don't think it's any different of a problem than any other major city.
It's just Hispanics here instead of Blacks.
I heard that Antonio, like a city like San Diego just has a really bad problem.
I grew up outside of Houston
it's any worse here than in Houston.
like Houston.
think that it's a pretty calm city.
Houston is not at all.
there's a lot of crime?
there's quite a bit of crime.
we're so protected up here,
really strange.
our red light district, you could go walking around down there and pretty much not fear for your life,
we're just so protected.
over in the Mid East, especially Israel, it's just like Israelis have totalitarian system, when it comes to the Palestinians.
the Israelis can do anything they want
when it comes to Palestinians, if they're out in the street at night, really looked on as odd.
usually bussed in to Jewish neighborhoods, and the Jewish cities
then at night they're bussed out to the occupied territories.
they don't have that.
what do you think about the mess we've created in Iraq?
I think it's unfortunate, as far as the Kurds are concerned,
I thi ,
It's just what do you do for them,
you want to do something for them,
you don't want to get so directly involved that you're occupying country.
we can't get involved in their civil war, unfortunately,
we've kind of driven these people out.
To do it,
you see President Bush is telling them rebel, uprise.
that's what they did
now they're asking him for help
he's like, no we can't get involved.
What my husband had very strong feelings,
he, agreed with, the General Schwartzkopf,
he said, him finish his job.
have let them, corner the Republican Guards,
I think the war ended too soon.
that's what everyone says.
I talk to, they says,
it's real easy to say that.
didn't damage enough of their arsenal.
We damaged most of it
should have sure we got everything.
I don't think the higher ups were thinking about this guy's going to do with the rest of his war machine.
They're going, it's not going to hurt us
we're just going to let them go,
really we didn't think about the people that he was going, tr ,
Unfortunately though, original goal of the mission was to drive them out of Kuwait.
once that was accomplished it,
they did, they stuck right to their goals,
what they were going to say.
the American people, when this first started, they were even reluctant to let them do that.
playing it very safe,
it, of hind sight is worth, whatever.
I don't know, they, it, Schwartz , Schwartzkopf knew what had to be done
it's too bad that he just didn't have the ability just to do it, go ahead to do it.
he had the fu ,
he knew what was going to happen, more than any of us.
I didn't realize that, *
it was going to make such a mess.
I feel really sorry for these people,
these people are middle class people, just like us.
Can you imagine if someone started bombing your neighborhood,
you knew this,
these people are going to come
if you were in your house they were going to take you and beat you.
Of course, you're pick everything up that you can carry
you're going to run.
just too bad that we couldn't see that.
I just have a feeling that the military involvement isn't over yet. That still feel like there's more to come.
I don't think this whole issue is settled as far as we're concerned.
you know what I was hoping?
I was hoping Iran was going to take a very, dramatic stand and invade,
Iran's the big bad guy,
really, they were going to save people's lives,
They've got sixty or so of Iraq's planes.
I know,
it's like they were using them as friends when we were having the conflict
I almost swear, I'm kind of disappointed with the Iranians,
why they didn't go save,
I don't know if the Kurdish,
I know the Shiite's are their people.
I don't know,
I think they have a bond with Kurds.
There are some Kurds living in Iran.
think they should have just done more,
maybe if the world could have given them some type of aid.
just so complicated.
I was real surprised that Israel stayed out of it much as they did.
knowing them, they're very,
I don't know,
almost compare them to a very egotistical man.
You're damn right,
I'm going to protect my family,
was amazed too.
proud of them, though, that they stayed out of it.
what I can tell if they had gotten into it, it would have started a whole new war.
(( )) yeah,
that part scared me.
the Egyptians would pull out
I just saw atomic bomb,
I have, I guess a lot of thoughts about the Vietnam War,
guess I feel like I was pretty young while it was going on
there's probably a lot of things I remember and a lot of things that I really didn't have a clue as to what was happening.
looking back, maybe some of the things that I know now, not sure I do believe it was worth the cost in dollars and lives.
That was one of the questions that she asked us to think about,
never went to war.
I don't think we were committed to winning it and getting out
I feel like it went on and on.
guess I see such a contrast like as opposed to the Middle East War we just had, where President Bush went out and got worldwide support what was happening.
I just feel like maybe we went in to be policeman
I'm not sure that's our role,
agree with that,
fairly young at the time too,
really don't have very many memories about it at all, in fact.
my husband is a Vietnam veteran
in looking at the Persian Gulf war that just went on, he,
frustrates him because of the support that they have and the support that the Vietnam vets did not have, from the people or the administration, either one.
Don't you think that maybe that's why we had it this time?
I do think that, it's been too long in coming
I feel like maybe the American people the government are aware of the things that we did wrong that we didn't support that ,
that those,
so many people were opposed to the war,
what it translated into was they were opposed to the folks that were there fighting it
those guys were there doing their duty.
That's right,
they weren't there by choice
think that we learned from that
I think one of those things that you learn the hard way.
It was a tragic mistake,
the way that they have been treated over the years I believe that's just now turning around. Just now, trying to be rectified
not sure you can undo the damage that was done emotionally,
on so many of the people.
I don't think you can
agree with you that think that time difference between the two wars has allowed a lot of people to see the mistakes that were made in every aspect of it
agree with you also, that I feel like it was not worth the money spent or the lives lost to fight that war.
they're still not settled over there.
they're not.
I have a feeling that the Persian Gulf crisis is going to be the same way.
I think we're going to end up back there in a few years not sooner.
appreciate the fa ,
I feel President Bush is in a hard spot.
He went over there to get them out of Kuwait, which he did.
he has backed out,
he has pulled out.
I realize they're still saying, here you're encouraging us to get rid of Saddam Hussein,
why aren't you helping us?
I think him going in and doing that would be putting us in another Vietnam situation.
I think it would too.
I don't think the U S will stand for it.
I don't think he would do that,
I think we learned too much
I agree with that.
of the effects.
whether it was justified or not, I know, that they probably felt like we were going in for a good cause.
feel like maybe they felt like we were doing the right thing to try and help maintain the democracy over there and,
and beat the communism,
I think somewhere that got lost.
in the long term effects war
you have to give Bush a lot of credit for said that's what we were going there to do
he did he said
he did pull out before it got any further than that where,
where it would have turned into more of a police action. or more of a political action I guess, you getting into their governmental affairs which you really can't do another country.
my biggest problem with all of these wars is we spend all of that money on all these other countries
we have so many problems here at home that we don't address.
That we don't get fixed.
That's right.
I know.
what frustrates me more than anything.
believe that we have to have a military
I believe that we have to have a defense to keep anybody else from walking in and doing it to us.
I also believe that we need to turn so much of that inward.
I think there's a lot of waste
they don't, they could just cut out all the fat get it lean, and start addressing some of the other issues,
I think we could take care of everything. And quit taking care of all these other countries all across the world,
Ye ,
who just end up using things against us later on anyway.
I know,
I do think that in the Middle East war,
I think that maybe a lot of the Arab countries that were so hateful towards the United States have come away with, kind of a different attitude.
I think that maybe we're not their big bad enemy any more.
I think that's good,
I think that's a good,
a lot of good has come from this one.
I think so too.
ironic way a lot of good came from the Vietnam war toward this war
like said earlier, eyes were opened after years and years that war
perhaps the reason that good came out of the Mid East war is because we had the experience of Vietnam.
I do think that, we've learned from it,
I wish there weren't war .
no kidding.
I do think we learned.
hate the emotional price a lot of the Vietnam people paid,
they still don't know what they were there for.
there was no feeling of accomplishment, no goal,
we went in
what did we do.
We lost lives
what were we trying to do.
Who knows.
that's true.
think you're right,
I think you're right there.
I do remember when it was over.
I remember when they were coming home.
I remember the feeling back then,
like this country has been behind this war.
there's a lot of people that aren't for war.
I'm not for war,
I believe that the way that it was done and the way that was handled were right.
I don't remember that feeling back in Vietnam.
I just remember,
our guys are over there
it's sad
we shouldn't be fighting a war
there was no, let's support them,
we ,
when this war broke out it frustrated me all antiwar people and,
demonstrations that were going on.
I felt like they got way too much media coverage and publicity
always got to have a cause, whether it's good, bad of indifferent.
They've got to have a cause
That's right. *
says because you're supporting the troops that supporting the war.
That's right.
have to support the people that are there.
That's right.
reason those people don't see that.
They don't see it as supporting the folks, the people.
they don't
they're just real shallow people.
I would agree with you there .
recall when President Bush said that,
he said look,
sorry that you're opposed to the war.
There's a lot of us that are opposed to war
you're not helping the people that are over there by what you're doing.
I remember a lot of it kind of stopped after that.
they're not helping anybody.
whole point,
they're not doing anything for anybody except themselves.
That's true.
I don't even know what they're doing for themselves.
Giving a soapbox to stand on .
Yeah .
I'm glad we've learned.
I'm sorry we had the experience of Vietnam.
I'm especially sorry for the people that spent all these years trying to deal with it emotionally,
until the four or five years, nobody ever really worried about that,
That's true.
for them.
I think that's where we as American people really them.
I don't know.
do you have anything else you want to say on this?
I guess not.
I think this is the first time that I haven't been cut off by the computer .
I know,
we get cut off all the time, too .
Usually I can talk all day
this is something to me that's sad .
it is.
have a good day
I appreciate the conversation.
same here.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
the general topic is hobbies.
Let's hear about your hobbies.
let's see,
what kind of hobbies do I have?
I guess, more not so much a hobby but things I enjoy doing.
I enjoy playing basketball basically all kinds of sports.
Any handicrafts?
Excuse me.
Any handicrafts?
I'm really not too creative
I, around with my hands and things like that
I leave that more up to my Mom .
I think I'm (( )) in handicraft.
I think it will become resume writing.
let's hope that aren't employed by that craft for too long.
hate to think about it
I'm getting rather good at reading want ads.
kind of time frame is it, looking for the, different shifts up there?
I ,
who knows.
Is it,
basically, I had read that they're just looking at relocating them all to McKinney is it, Texas,
all means about fifteen to twenty percent,
I'm sure the numbers classified
some of the internal news and the news services,
it's approximately six fifty,
ten percent of six fifty, is sixty five
twenty percent would be one thirty.
how about that.
that's what it did report was a hundred and thirty relocating down to McKinney.
that's possible.
How about that.
is there many other,
are you in the defense?
yes, (( )) .
Is it, many other corporations in the area?
I saw Seven Eleven that was hiring.
I'm sure with the new,
think it went to Lockheed, didn't it?
hear they're hiring all over the place for that.
Apple's coming to town
that has some opportunities
Now is that (( ad good )) just to Colorado or to Colorado Springs?
Colorado Springs specifically,
How about that.
M C I s coming telemarketing is your bag.
Personally I'd rather die a slow painful death
you in the, computer operations or in the actual, manufacturing?
I'm a defense worker.
I'm, government tool control specialist.
that's why I was in the (( Deseg )) down here in Plano also.
Are you still employed?
Am I still employed by T I,
I took a leave T I back in November.
Actually, December was my first month away from them.
Exempt or (( )) ?
it was purely by my own choice.
incentive for myself to leave,
it was just an opportunity arose
decided to take it.
you didn't even get the severance package.
I should have taken the, option when that was there,
it was just, I missed it by a couple months.
what can one do.
I'm just happy still to have a job.
are you happy with what you are doing now?
I am kind of happy with it,
it's getting better all the time,
I knew it would be different from the very beginning,
as you get to know more of the people that work there and more of what's going on with the system,
I was in the computer operations
to become similar
there's things that weren't as good,
as an overall package, (( I'd say )) I'm pretty happy so far with the way it's turned out.
it hasn't been a long time (( )) T I
I'm significantly shaken by the situation,
but not devastated.
the one thing I guess at least in your favor is fact that, that is more in the support of the manufacturing
there's lots and lots of companies that have maybe not in area but manufacturing in general.
To tell you the truth, I'm not really worried.
That's great.
That's good.
I seem rather happy about it most of the time,
to know, what's, possibilities are,
what might happen.
Sometimes it's good just to have everything out on the table.
still in all,
It may be a blessing in disguise.
it feels funny.
I know a number of people who are, surplused
they're just,
actually, what the positions that they found outside of the company were much, much better than the ones that they currently had inside.
despite the fact that I should be tying flies or fly fishing going for walks in the mountains,
I can't seem to get into it right now.
I'm sure it's just with the, the way that things are so topsy turvy right now as soon as you on a (( pass )) ,
be here in six months.
would you like to be there?
all things being equal, yes.
even somewhere better,
God this is much better than west Texas.
huh .
just take the day,
tell me Hell is much better than west Texas.
actually, Plano, Dallas, Houston, Austin that whole area actually nice.
little brother lives in Austin right now.
that's a beautiful place.
Goes to U T.
That's just fantastic down there.
Take it more as a,
this is your opportunity to do whatever you want,
pick out where you want to live,
once you pick that spot out, pick out what you want to do.
I , that's the problem.
For the last many years I've more or less let them direct what I want to do,
and where I want to go.
And just kind of go with the punches.
now I feel lost.
that's a,
takes a bit of a shift doesn't it.
I had job offers.
I never found the one that was worth it for me to leave.
the best thing about it is that you can, try something
if you don't like it, shoot, move on to something else.
That's the way (( I would have )) looked at the whole thing here,
I'll take a chance,
if I don't like it, I'll go someplace else, do something different.
had you been with T I long when you changed?
Five years.
there's a noticeable difference there. *
I've been with them sixteen.
I can imagine, the longer and longer it goes,
Actually, seventeen now,
momentum is, driving force in our lives.
I'm looking a opportunity.
that's good,
you've got a good attitude about it.
I'm looking at it as a change.
I'm looking at it an adventure.
there you go.
That's the way to do it.
maybe I'll wet a fly line this year and do some camping if I don't get laid off between now and then.
There you go,
that's the thing to do.
That's much funner than doing any kind of job.
how about we end this?
That will work out just fine.
Nice talking to you.
All right,
nice talking to you.
Good bye.
What's the,
death penalty doesn't it?
They just, started it again, too just late, or, within the past few years .
for quite some time, just about every one of the states had given up the death penalty.
now it's coming back into favor.
they find it is more deterrent.
my sociology class at S M U's taught us that it was not a deterrent.
that's just what they said.
I don't know if I went back and took a sociology class now they'd say it is a deterrent.
if you,
Maybe they've changed their minds.
compare the figures, I think that's where coming from.
Maybe that's it.
Maybe that's it,
that was back in the seventies.
That was before death law again .
myself am in favor of it, particularly for, I think Texas has a law. crimes, murders related with, drugs or killing a policemen.
I think,
I agree.
I think it ought to be expanded to include children.
think they're working on, something in Austin now,
I'm not sure what it is,
I just remember seeing a, kind of a synopsis of it.
why stop at children?
Why not go to adults, too?
personally very in favor of it.
why should we let them set in prison and work on their college degrees after they've mowed down a class yard full of kids or best effort at doing that.
don't care to support them.
I don't either
there is something to be said about ,
for the sake of argument, I'm taking the,
a con,
against it.
yourself how many times have you heard where, a citizen was wrongfully arrested,
huh .
and served time at a penitentiary,
just recently this, black man served nine years was it,
for robbery.
there was the black woman that, robbed and shot the furrier.
she was set free, too, just in two examples in Texas recently.
she actually killed the furrier. Or someone,
she was charged with murder
then they decided it was a case of mistaken identity or something.
I didn't retain all those facts very well.
I know what you're,
what if we make a mistake.
That's it.
that's not one of those things that you can turn the wheel back and reverse everything.
right now our laws are so liberal that, even with the death penalty in effect, I don't think that, they're going to use it, too frequently, unfortunately.
I, like you, say yes
let's have it,
a shot, get rid of them.
Why should they be in, prison getting their college degree.
I guess, though, where I would have a problem with it if I were on the jury that handed down the death sentence because it was my judgement the person's guilty.
Now that's tougher.
It's easier to say it on the telephone
everyone agree that, the death penalty's the way to go,
it's a deterrent to crime,
they shouldn't catch themselves in that circumstance anyway.
to be the actual one of the ones that decide, that would be tougher for me.
very true.
agree with you there.
I think I'd probably do it
we could never say what we would do if we're not in the circumstance.
that's, that's a real easy thing to say that, sure I would,
I don't know .
I myself wouldn't want to be on the jury like that.
it's, that's an awful lot expect of a person, kill somebody is what it amounts to.
that's what they did.
Very true.
did it because they have a warped mind for some reason.
rather than have a warped mind it was just the only way to get whatever they wanted.
wanted something respect the human life.
huh .
anyhow I guess we both agree that,
that it is,
Hang them.
it should be in effect.
I agree it should be in effect.
Also I agree there should be a lot of care in the enforcement,
I guess I would say I want it to be in effect
I want , maybe
I have a problem with this, too.
I think our courts have too many opportunities for them to go back and get one more chance.
that's true.
state in the union, a verdict is an automatic, appeal.
That's correct.
It is,
it is.
I'm inclined to agree with you.
I think so,
there should be a limit as to the number of appeals.
there's some,
maybe, I don't remember if this is Texas or not, that has something about all drug dealers can be sentenced to the death sentence.
n ,
Convicted drug dealers.
Not just for dealing in drugs.
what's the ru ,
There are certain circumstances,
I don't remember what they are.
They're not selling them,
they're distributing them.
It's for the large dealers is what,
it's reserved for.
are in effect killing people.
believe it's any capital crime related to drugs.
I think that's the way it's worded.
Is that how it's worded?
I knew it was there
is it passed?
I do believe that's in.
I wouldn't swear to it myself.
I believe it is,
was in effect.
I believe you're right, though.
I think it is.
I have to agree with that.
think it certainly should be one of the options.
I've been fortunate with my children and grandchildren, so far that I know.
I qualify that heavily,
you never know,
to the best of my knowledge we haven't had a major problem yet.
it just touches so many young people. *
it does.
I have four sons myself ,
the youngest is twenty eight,
they are all pretty well grown up
they all went through it, going through high school and everything
knock wood that, they have not,
I won't say they didn't try it,
I wouldn't know,
I doubt very much that using it now.
In fact I'm sure they don't.
my children are about in the same age bracket.
I think, let's see, the oldest is thirty two
the youngest is probably twenty seven, twenty eight.
it's the same age bracket.
there's four, two girls and two boys.
I think one of each experimented very slightly with pot,
I think that was the extent of it to the best of my knowledge.
That's usually the way it is.
just, try it out with their peers .
none of them even smoke.
They don't,
they never,
strangely enough, their mother and I both smoked when they were growing up.
Now, my wife, my ex wife, she quit, when she was pregnant with the last one
she never started up again.
I just quit, about fourteen months and two weeks ago.
that's tough.
it is.
it seems to be getting tougher as time goes by.
My husband hasn't quit, yet.
he knows he has to
he knows he should
he knows
he knows,
he hasn't.
I do respect the fact, though, that he refuses to smoke in the same room with me.
very conscious passive smoking
he's concerned about it but,
hasn't quite made it yet .
when I was still smoking, felt that way.
If I was in a public restaurant, seated at table with, non smokers I would try to pick my, seat where the smoke would blow away from them.
I'd hold the cigarette under the table.
I've seen all of this,
yeah .
now the other foot .
I'm aware of other people smoking now.
not smoke in anyone else's house except our own.
He will get up
he'll go outside,
when we're invited to people's house, he will not smoke in their house. Which I think is good because there's a lot of people that are very,
particularly if they have children.
his best,
the actual quitting he hasn't done.
He changed brands to a brand he doesn't like.
He put up all of his ash trays.
He will not smoke in a comfortable position,
still , he's done everything the Smokers Anonymous tell you to do except quit smoking .
It's a,
long process.
there's a trick I use.
They used to leave my cigarettes in the glove compartment.
how neat.
every time I wanted one I have to go outside and just take one. One at a time.
a deterrent.
He has his in the kitchen,
It seems to me that one of the biggest differences is the computer revolution.
I can very clearly remember ten years ago I was just beginning to explore computerizing my office trying to find out what kinds of computers might be useful
we did end up with, I B M, P C s, which I now would not have chosen ,
that was before the Macintosh.
twenty years ago I was, in graduate school pecking out a dissertation on a manual typewriter .
I know it.
I would say that's one of the largest changes my life.
seen that just in the last, even five years how much they've in use. probably eight years,
when I was a freshman in college
my degree was in computer, technology originally
it seemed like it would,
they were just getting out with disks and all that, getting away with the cards,
doing away with programming cards
thirty years ago had a college job, working as a programmer
we had to write code in binary
and, have it punched in on those little cardboard cards which,
I know.
I don't think exists anymore.
You never see one of those punch cards anymore.
I think T V has a lot to do with the changes, too. Don't you? In, people's attitudes.
very possibly.
I'm not sure in the last ten years it's been very different from before.
certainly in the last thirty I would say there have been significant changes. the change from black and white to color television.
Thirty years ago I guess there were color T V s,
I sure didn't have access to one.
twenty years ago, practically everybody had a color T V,
now I think they're many,
there are more T V s than households,
it's close to getting, one T V per person they say .
now everybody, has V C R s and two or three V C R s
and that kind of thing.
Certainly ten years ago, V C R s were just coming on the market
that's made a significant difference in the way I watch television for instance,
now I almost never watch a T V program when it's on.
I know.
I tape it and then watch it when it's convenient
that way I don't have to worry about being interrupted.
I can just put it on pause .
flip through the commercials
you don't have to watch the commercials.
That's always convenient.
you can watch a program in forty five minutes instead of an hour .
You skip the commercials.
huh .
what was our question about, decline in socio ,
Wasn't the decline so much.
I think they just said the changes in the United States.
How was life different ten, twenty, or thirty years ago.
I can't really remember back that far,
ten years ago, I don't know. I'd say, in the nineteen seventies you remember how kids would walk around with A M, what do you call those, little A M radios
now people have jam box with C D players in them,
That's certainly,
a difference.
hand held T V s and car phones.
that's another one,
car phones is a good point, and, cellular phones of all types and beepers.
ten years ago I was working in a job at a medical center
I had to carry a beeper around
they were kind of bulky
all they did was just, make a beep noise
you had to go find a telephone and call in to find out what they wanted you for and who you were supposed to call.
These days they have these tiny little things that are only about the size of two or three pencils
they fit in your shirt pocket
they have a little display screen that shows you a message and either tells you a person or phone number to respond to
Those are cool.
those are pretty neat.
they have the kind that just vibrates so you can shut them off,
in a theatre or something
you can still get your messages .
let's see, social changes,
going to go in twenty years?
I haven't the slightest idea.
I was just thinking, though, about huge social change in the last ten years is AIDS.
It was just beginning to be recognized and noticed ten years ago.
know that because I was writing a paper about it.
I was writing journal article.
they still didn't even know what caused it or anything.
there was a suspicion,
that it was a virus
nobody had identified it
they were really just going on epidemiological,
guesswork, because the way it was transmitted made it look an awful lot like, hepatitis
the spread pattern of hepatitis, they could work backwards to the transmission by, blood and semen.
I'm curious what was your, graduate study in?
was in English as a matter of fact, and
medieval studies,
I went to work as an editor and writer,
ten years ago I was working in the medical center, publishing a journal and writing about medical topics .
let's see, twenty years ago, I guess we just beginning to get into what they were calling sex revolution
after the pill
freed people up from worries about, illegitimate pregnancy
I guess in the seventies is time when that was supposed to have exploded.
Thirty years ago there was no pill.
You think that's caused a lot of pressure on, younger kids today,
to make choices that they probably shouldn't have to make?
I do.
I really do.
I have,
four kids in college right now, children and stepchildren
I know that the expectation for them was, to have sex and, much earlier,
than the expectation when I was in college.
In my day, we talked quietly behind our hands about people that we suspected might be,
sleeping with their boyfriends .
they certainly didn't expect everybody to
it was really only, acceptable if you were engaged and planning to get married the relatively near future.
I certainly know from talking to my stepdaughter that girls in high school were under a whole lot more pressure nowadays.
It's kind of scary when I think of what will happen in twenty years, when I have kids and they're grown and , just kind of some of the changes that will happen even more
I guess the answer,
Seems like it can't get much worse.
stay flexible because nobody can predict what's going to happen in twenty years .
I certainly wouldn't have been able to twenty years ago tell you what, my kids were likely to be like.
Course, one of them was just a brand new baby twenty years ago,
I sure wouldn't have been able to predict for him.
some of the other ones weren't born.
sounds like America's going to become even more communication society with faxes and cellular phones and
worldwide communication
Electronic mail.
I just got on that this past, about a year ago
that's made a difference in the way I do my job because it's so much easier to get hold of people and get quick answers to things.
Even when they're on another continent.
It's pretty wild.
that reminds me, Federal Express was around ten years ago,
it was used as kind of an extreme emergency
nowadays people use Fed Ex, all the time.
Sure do.
People do seem to travel more.
It's much more common for people, even teenagers to be going to Europe and South America and,
I was almost thirty before I got off this continent.
both my kids had been abroad when they were still in high school .
Yeah .
I know that's my family was talking when I picked up and moved to Texas from Indiana
they were like, years ago we wouldn't have done that,
especially come home every couple months.
what do you think are some current trends in, the way families spend time together, based on what you've seen.
think that it's getting to where they're not spending time together.
Yeah .
I think, like in my situation, today, on a weekend when couples are supposed to spend time together, my husband's been off doing his thing all day today,
I've been off doing my thing all day
I haven't seen him since eight o'clock this morning.
Are you newly married,
two years.
situation here, I've been married about ten months,
I know what you mean.
really to find time to spend together when you both work full time and, you both have hobbies that are different.
if you have hobbies that are the same, then, you can enjoy your hobby together,
my husband and I have different hobbies.
Is he a hunter and a fisher and all that.
he's a record collector and a Hot Wheels collector.
he was off today, looking records.
I was off, doing, type things.
did some shopping and stuff.
from the people I've talked to, I don't know if I should bring this into it,
a lot of the dads said that they would probably choose careers their own schedule
they could spend more time with their kids
they look back
they're all kind of regretful, I think.
I think that would be the ideal situation,
I think that would be the ideal situation.
I think that a lot of people,
like in my case do shift work.
have that choice.
same here.
I have to be at work at a certain hour
would be nice to be able to have flexible hours
maybe after we decide to have kids might find a job that has flexible hours.
so anyway.
At T I, is that where you work?
It's really kind of sad,
some of the people that I work with go to school during the day
they wouldn't see them at night,
because they would be work and the kids (( are all ready )) in bed.
so it was kind of like, they see their kids for fifteen minutes and the same with their spouses.
This relative may work even a weirder shift like weekends, or something,
it was really sad, that a lot of families, have dual income.
A lot of people choose to, which is fine.
then the kids kind of suffer.
it would be nice to be able to just have, back in the old days,
huh, .
back I grew up,
mom stayed home, and raised the kids.
My mom didn't go back to work until I was in junior high school.
she was there pretty much all my, formative years.
that was nice
I liked that
I would hope that I would be able to give that to my kids.
I think with the way the future is, economy wise,
I don't think it's going to be realistic.
I know.
Unfortunately, that's probably true.
do you think the parents spend quality time with their kids
more watching T V and stuff like that, not really, ...
I think that, I think very few spend quality time.
I think most of the time the kids are usually off watching cartoons or playing video games or like that.
Yeah .
I think that, kids that I see value quality time.
it's always that way it's too late.
they're older
they look back.
it's true,
some other questions they have,
(( )) , I'm not sure.
I know my parents are growing up,
I guess they never spent much time watching T V.
In fact, I've never seen my mom turn on the T V,
we didn't really have one (( )) .
(( they )) spent a lot of time outside with us and stuff,
my dad had his own business
it was easier for them to do that,
don't know,
at the time.
think kids now a days are raised on T V.
almost a surog ,
T V s a surrogate parent.
that's a good way to put it.
very good one at that.
that's a pretty good way to put it .
what kind of things do you hope to do? .
hope to, of course, be able to teach them right from wrong.
to be able to spend, their growing up years, being in the home, not having to work.
being able to do,
I know a lot of people
I work part time also,
a lot of people that I work for are, mothers that stay home.
do a lot of volunteer work
they're real active in the community
they do a lot of things with their kids that they wouldn't ordinarily be able to do if they were working.
like to be able to do that.
I'd like to be able to stay home and be able to spend time with my kids.
Do volunteer work and,
be in clubs and stuff,
I agree.
I hope that happens, in my case.
I think that's for few and far between.
I think that, probably ninety percent of the,
of the, parents out there probably working parents.
Yeah. .
really see trend changing much,
if anything, I think,
I know.
there's going to be fewer and fewer, single income families.
what's sad about that is day cares end up instilling values in your kids.
That may not necessarily be consistent with yours.
I don't even know what day care is really all about because never went to a day care center,
Yeah .
had that kind of experience.
don't even think we had ,
I don't even remember them being around when we were little.
it seems like a big trend, in the last ten years.
Day cares have popped up and become part the kids' lives.
It's like a home away from home for a lot of them.
Sure, is, ,
. I guess we could ring this off since exhausted all of our ideas,
we seem to agree.
I think this is a good closing point.
it was really nice talking to you.
you too,
I wish you the best.
you too.
bye bye.
Bye bye.
do you vote regular? .
I do, I try and vote in every single election. *
Every one.
that's just since, in the past say about six years.
Before that I really didn't pay any attention at all.
that's me.
I've never paid any attention to voting.
you haven't?
I didn't use to,
now I really,
I get so angry about what goes on
I feel like I can't really complain too much, unless ,
Unless you have something to do with it.
the problem is, that I am very liberal politically
I hardly ever have anybody that wins that I vote for .
Liberal politically,
I'm, pretty left wing
I don't know anything about politics.
you don't?
difference between Republicans and Democrats?
there's a lot of them,
it depends on what issue you're talking about.
Democrats more liberal than Republicans,
kind of hard to say now, especially after Desert Storm,
I think back in the when, my political opinions were being formed war and stuff,
the Republicans were more, what they called Hawks, which is more aggressive in war and more pro war,
and pro aggression
the Democrats were the Doves,
they were more for peace.
I'm not sure how much that holds true anymore,
I think, the issues are,
you vote for the Democrats
Democrats usually are of public assistance programs,
programs to,
the big Republican thing is that for less government,
they want less government involvement,
in society
they're apt to vote in, more aid to people,
apt to vote in programs that involve the government running things.
have you ever voted at all?
I never have.
You haven't?
How old are you?
I'm twenty six.
I know,
I don't know about it.
I don't keep up on it
I don't feel like I enough knowledge on it to even,
to pick the right person.
that's what they need,
said something to improve voting.
If they could make it to find out, what's going on.
Do you know what I mean?
to me, know what would have been wrong with,
I can't even remember who ran for president against Bush.
I think it was, that woman,
Du ,
wasn't it a woman.
it was Dukakis,
from Massachusetts.
didn't he have a woman,
that Reagan.
There was a woman that was running for vice president for a while.
that was,
That was a while ago,
that was a couple elections ago,
Okay .
that's okay.
that's what I mean,
I didn't know what the difference between Dukakis and Bush was.
I didn't know anything about Bush or Dukakis.
what you see on T V about them, like in the news or on the ads,
do you kind of just,
I don't remember anything about Dukakis,
You don't?
they're all saying that they're going to do, whatever is best for their campaign anyway.
That's what I mean,
if they had some kind of public programs where you can just go out and,
I don't know,
know, in school they didn't teach you about
not really.
You didn't get any government classes?
it's really hard too,
before they used to have, a lot of,
it seems like the stuff that they put out now, it, doesn't just seem like it,
I know for a fact that kind of stuff that if you, wrote and asked for material,
what do you believe in,
what do you believe in,
they don't take any stands on anything.
They kind of say, what do you want me to believe.
they word it so that it's really hard to tell where they're standing on certain issues.
I'm not sure they're,
I know how they do it.
like with the abortion issues and stuff.
they have to kind of take a stand on some things, like abortion and things like that,
that's kind of, how I judge.
There's a few things where they have to say yes or no, like abortion or gun control,
let me see,
I try to look at some of the newspaper articles, or the,
I don't trust T V as much,
newspaper articles can show they voted in the past
you get,
it all depends again on whose writing it and who they're for, because they can slant that too.
like I said most of I'm (( )) ,
also the politicians put out what makes them look good anyway.
everybody's got, stuff they don't want known.
everybody's got a secret .
anyway, I'm sorry
have much knowledge.
that's okay.
Do you think,
I don't even remember this being on there.
do you think,
what would it take,
God, this is really good actually, to talk to somebody who hasn't voted,
what kind of,
like them to do so you would know more about it.
Like send stuff in the mail or have it at the library
I guess that would be good,
I'm sure they've got it at the library,
if I get to the library.
I've got two babies, so, I don't,
do you?
that will tie you down a little bit.
don't know.
feel like it's not really going to make that much difference if you don't vote
I know if enough people think like that it, would make a difference,
if people stopped thinking like that.
a lot of people, they'll vote the way their family votes,
you're what, Democrat? *
Then your kids or whatever will follow you and just vote Democrat,
not in my family .
All split.
a lot of families do that.
I know a lot of wives feel like they have to vote the way that their husbands vote.
that kind of keeps from getting a lot of issues resolved .
I lie.
I don't know,
if I did understand politics I probably would vote more,
like I said if I voted for Bush,
like when, Gary
Hart was running,
a lot of women would have voted for him just because he was nicer looking,
not that I think he was good looking,
he was young.
I didn't think that was right, because he may have been a good president, or whatever.
he had an affair,
it just threw him out of the whole running.
a lot of people go by their, personal life when they vote
Which I guess if you got turmoil in your personal life, you're going to let it come into work
I'm sure there's a lot of people that have had,
I think everybody does,
it just depends on how well you can hide it.
that's very true,
think that doesn't really have that much to do with, unless they've done something really horrible,
or something real abnormal.
criminal or something like that's different,
if him and his wife weren't getting along,
that have on him running for president.
Do you know what I mean?
It's all so secretive,
we really don't see the,
That's right.
the true person anyway.
I think having a big effect on how poorly that the country is being run, is that, the people that want to get elected are turning it into a popularity contest by advertising the things that,
that really don't have anything to do with how well they do the job.
see they're trying to find an excuse not to deal with people really want to know about, because on those issues you have to say yes or no.
if they don't say yes or no, then maybe somebody will vote for them that wouldn't have if they had come down on the wrong side.
Do you know what I'm saying?
they just try and make it a personal thing,
if you remember any of the T V commercials from the last presidential campaign, they all had, pictures of Bush
even from Reagan, it a McDonald's commercial,
huh .
That's about what it looked like.
what did you think of Reagan as a president?
I just thought he was really inept.
I don't think he did anything at all.
just kind of sat him up there like a puppet
the people that were,
Do you think he won from Carter because of hostages that were held at that time?
I think that was part of it,
I think there's a lot of that the country was having at the time and recession and stuff,
people just had a picture of Carter as not being real capable,
he, actually,
all right,
I thought he was great.
I thought Carter was good too,
that was,
Did you?
I always liked him,
I thought he was great at the time
just couldn't get over the fact that Reagan beat him.
just couldn't believe that he got voted out.
I think I wasn't,
let's see,
that's been about ten years ago, right?
I was only fifteen or sixteen,
I remember Carter
I liked him.
You did?
Have you heard stuff about him lately,
do you know what he's doing?
I sure don't.
active still politically.
He's been overseas.
You remember when he was in office he did a lot of stuff for the Middle East, for pe ,
what are your,
credit cards?
not very often.
I usually,
the ones we use is Visa
we always try to pay it back at the end of the month.
(( I have, )) .
So it doesn't (( get )) , the credit,
the interest rate is so high that you're really,
if you're going to use credit cards you need to use that policy, I think, don't you? .
Otherwise, you end up paying so much more for your merchandise that it's hardly,
That's right.
it's not a very good idea.
Do you have a lot of credit cards?
I have a lot of them
I don't use them very much, though.
I use them mostly for big things, like maybe, sometimes, tuition short, to go ahead and get it and then try to get it saved back as quick as I can.
The other thing, think if you do get overextended a little bit, you need to be sure and pay it off, more than one at a time, because I think you could run forever paying what they require.
Just goes on and on.
Which is what they want.
I think a lot of people go in debt because they think, I can just charge it,
really, if they don't have the money then, they aren't going to have it in a month,
that's true.
they, make the mistake of,
There are times,
(( pushing all their cards )) .
very useful,
like, emergency trip,
or something.
the money will be available,
it's, not immediately handy.
I think, they're very helpful, plus the fact that it's helpful not to have to carry a lot of money sometimes.
really do need to be very, responsible about it
you end up in deep trouble.
I made that mistake when I first got a job
that's kind of like,
it took me quite a while to pay them off,
that I decided, I'm not going to use them at all, and just try to pay cash for everything
that worked for a while
we got married
we decided we used them we would pay them off as we go.
That can be very handy under those kind of circumstances.
The other thing about them is too, to get some and use them because if you have never used them a credit thing. It stops you from doing a lot of things.
If you,
if you pay for everything by cash, there is a lot of things that a lot of people who will not give you credit when you need something like a house or,
That's true,
a car.
have become a very vital part monetary system ,
over the last few years.
it's true,
you have to be very careful or you end up, going in the deep end
an awful lot of people are in trouble.
We have a boy living with us who works for a credit card, company that,
he makes calls to people who have problems, credit problems,
that are trying to work out
. Poor thing he comes home very depressed every night ,
because the world has so many problems of that sort,
it's, it's, it's a really big problem I think, and, takes mature people treat it,
a real advantage to you, instead of a disadvantage.
I think, the way the tax system was, they encouraged people to use credit cards, with a big write off at the end of the year.
now, punch money, because
It didn't do you any good now, does it?
you cannot,
You cannot write off your interest.
Even before it probably wasn't, though, because you didn't get anywhere near as much as what it,
you didn't get to claim anywhere near what you ended up paying.
I'm not,
other than that, I don't have too much on credit cards
It's good to talk to you.
You, too.
Thanks for calling.
bye now .
do you
I sure do.
What do you do?
I ride a bicycle quite a bit and work out with free weights .
I love to ride a bicycle.
I live right near White Rock Lake,
ride, about ten to twenty miles a day.
that's good.
haven't been doing so well this year,
was exercising on a bike for a while
had gotten some sun that day,
the sweat had built up on me and built up under my skin and caused me to peel.
It was the sweating, not the burn
that's (( weird )) .
that was wild .
I just had a baby three months ago,
I haven't really gotten back into exercising.
I exercised real good for a couple of years.
It was aerobics and lifting weights three nights a week
it was running three nights a week.
what's your motivation?
my motivation?
A friend of mine, always pushing me.
This was in Louisiana.
she would push,
she was, hey,
let's go do it,
she wouldn't take no for an answer .
Was it for health, or, to look good?
wanted to look good,
I was think,
it wasn't really health related.
It was just a side benefit.
big or anything,
I'm not in great shape,
when I worked out, I got in pretty good shape.
I didn't build up muscle, though,
I just got real good and toned.
I don't think women look good with muscles.
Up to a point.
Up to a point,
yeah, .
It's just some of those women that come up there looking like Arnold Schwarzenegger's sister just doesn't get it.
the other question,
let's see, do you do it as a task
do you working out.
I guess it's a task 'cause I can't make myself do it lately.
I think enjoy it sometimes
there's other times when I just get tired of it
I feel like I'm obligated to do it, because I've been doing it
I should keep up.
You don't want to lose yourself.
there's some days the hardest thing in the world get started.
how old are you?
I'm, twenty seven.
you're still young.
still young, getting older.
We all are,
It's not hard to stay,
if you keep working out when you're young though, when you get older, your body's not going to look as bad.
I seen an old woman today,
she was about eighty
she looked so good,
she was standing just as straight and tall
she had a small waist
she didn't have,
you know, how some older women will get the big bulge right in the middle.
she didn't have that at all.
lips were a little bit wide,
a lot of,
back in her time, they liked women with big hips anyway
she may be keeping that on purpose,
I notice stay in shape you don't age as bad,
huh .
I think, too.
to school, too, at night
last semester I had stopped working out 'cause I hurt myself and started smoking a lot,
you just,
those kind of things age you more.
smoking ages you quick,
it puts those little wrinkles around your lips.
you can't,
it just kind of feeds itself.
You smoke,
you don't work out because you,
You get winded.
I smoke a pack a day
I finally quit because, was doing was going down hill fast.
I can't quit smoking,
I've tried.
I was telling a friend of mine that I'd be as bad as being an alcoholic,
I can't quit smoking.
I've tried,
I just can't do it.
I quit when I was pregnant with my kids,
as soon as I had them, right back to it.
Right back to them.
It was like,
that was the only reason I quit.
I didn't want to.
I don't want to quit smoking,
I enjoy that.
I said I have very few vices,
I'll keep this one thank you .
did you ever go to one of those health clubs or anything?
I went to health club a few years ago,
now I work out at home, because have time to get down to one.
There used to be one that was a twenty four hour that I used to go to
I actually prefer to work out alone.
I like to work out with people,
I need,
need competition, is what I need.
I've got to have somebody to compete with,
I don't want to do anything.
I wouldn't mind with a friend stuff
when you get into health clubs where you just stand around and wait.
are you,
I like to start, get it done and get out of there.
are you married or anything?
I'm not.
get your girlfriend to work out with you.
A lot of women like that.
I'd love it if my husband would ask me to work out with him.
He doesn't work out very often.
Course, he don't need to.
He's small
he works as a laborer on the railroad.
he's building his muscles up all day,
he doesn't have to do anything.
He can eat like a horse, too.
gain it like I do.
especially having a kid, I guess, tends to just gain weight because you have to, to,
you have to.
you can gain too much weight.
I gained a little bit too much,
I looked,
with my first little boy, I did gain a lot of weight,
about fifty pounds overweight with him
I didn't loose it until two years ago
I got pregnant and, ruined that,
Just have to start all over.
like I say, it ain't as bad this time, because I was in shape when I got pregnant.
when I got pregnant with him,
I just wasn't shape.
I don't know the difference
some people are a little bit fanatical about it.
About weight?
and about,
working out and fitness,
I like work out to look good and stay in shape
I know it's good for me,
people that live for it and, eat a bunch of different pills, and,
that's what my friend did.
all that kind of stuff, it gets a little bit obsessive.
with the wheat germ and all the vitamins and everything else
really, we was,
even with her taking all those vitamins and stuff,
we stayed right on the same track with each other,
developing and everything.
Now there,
you can take those,
what is it?
I couldn't think,
there's really bad for you.
to say hemorrhoids, ,
I was trying to say
I stay from that crap.
it's too dangerous.
just see hair start growing out of my upper lip or something.
I had a friend whose brother did steroids
as soon as he stopped working out he just ballooned out.
It all turned to fat
he just,
really looked bad.
I didn't know it did that.
I don't know if it does to everybody,
he was,
just that's how it affected him.
he, I don't know, just,
I've been wanting to get me
I've been wanting to get a ten speed to ride around.
I'm scared to run, for dogs.
Course I know dogs can get you on a bike too,
seems like it,
At least you got a chance to out run them that way.
Yeah .
I don't like to run myself.
I've thought about it several times
I like to move a little faster and cover more ground.
they've come up that running is not as good for you as they thought it was.
hard on legs and your joints and stuff.
it's real hard on your legs
it's hard on women.
just makes stuff move down.
I like jogging,
I don't mind that.
I can get out and do that,
I can't.
as long as it's not hot.
If it's hot, you can't do that.
just, be careful not to slide.
you can't ride your bike at all in the rain, can you.
you can't,
it's dangerous.
You slide.
At least maybe some of these mountain bikes you could
but a regular ten speed with those skinny tires,
you slide all over the place.
did ride my friends bike, that one time, what I was trying to do.
I was trying to make a U turn
I never could make a U turn in a bike,
I can do it in my car,
I tried to do it on that ten speed and wrecked
I told her a dog was chasing me .
I wrecked it into the curb.
I didn't hurt it too bad.
I scratched it on
she had some kind of fender thing going over the back tire, I think.
it's been nice talking to you.
good luck with new kid.
Thank you,
she's good.
have fun exercising.
All right.
All right,
bye bye.
All right.
Do you have a bunch of factories and stuff out there?
we've got quite a few,
What we're more concerned with is the inner pollution in the city.
we've actually had some warnings in, Raleigh
you mean
on air pollution.
for smog and stuff?
because of there so many cars,
we have a belt line Raleigh where we're trying to divert traffic.
it's just surrounding the city,
you can actually see it.
There's a couple of, tall buildings
in Raleigh,
you can actually,
they're blurred,
they're even dark,
what it is is the pollution.
What do you think of greenhouse effect that's going on?
I guess that's
that's causing the hole in the ozone.
that's very serious.
even feeling the effects of the weather from, the shift in the jet stream.
is scary though, isn't it?
the last two, years, our winters have been absolutely nothing.
maybe, one snow.
all right,
North Carolina.
That's up there by Kentucky, isn't it?
North Carolina is all the way on the east coast.
It's further west than Georgia,
it's, right below Virginia.
Kentucky's next to Virginia, I'm pretty sure.
I'm from Kentucky,
I should know
I don't,
I'm sorry.
Kentucky, we use to have winters
we'd have three and four feet of snow.
Course here in Texas they don't have snow,
they don't know what snow is.
They freak out when there's snow on the ground .
Originally I'm from Texas
that's close to here.
real close.
How long have you been in Raleigh?
I've been out of Texas about ten years.
how old are you?
twenty, seven.
I almost forgot my age.
we're the same age.
I forget my age all the time,
that's okay.
just something that goes with the territory.
to me, Texas, and Kentucky, we had to have ice on the ground for them to close school.
In Texas, if it gets cold and it looks like it's going to rain, swear they close everything down.
I just laugh.
I do,
they get,
traffic slows down to nothing.
they've been doing the same thing here.
kind of funny,
are different,
even, North Carolinians, they don't know how to handle cold weather.
no northe ,
I'm from the north,
that's why I said
I don't know,
you just get used to the weather,
of course the people down in south, used to cold weather and stuff,
it just,
I don't know,
I just laugh
on the ground everything's closed up.
you can have snow on the ground and not be slick on the road .
That's true.
Do you all have much pollution there?
not really,
not to see it.
of course, here, Oscar Mayer
there is a few factories,
I don't see much pollution going on.
what irks me is these cars that are driving down the road,
you have that black smoke coming from their tail pipe.
see, they have (( )) test, or something like that they call it.
that's supposed to cut down on it.
supposedly that's supposed to catch it.
I'll tell you what,
even these buses, lord, it real bad. These buses in Raleigh,
school buses and the
commercial buses,
school buses are notorious.
they're burning that diesel fuel is what it is.
gets bad.
you know what they've started doing instead of the tail pipes being at the bottom of those buses
they've started putting them up at the top,
that way it gets above, other cars on the road
that's a good idea.
it really does make a difference, although settles,
even if it's at the top and it's a lot of black smoke coming out, it still settles,
if you're going to be jogging on the side of the road, even more miserable.
have to go out to the country to jog.
the, pregnant women aren't supposed to walk along a highway
I didn't know that.
because of that smoke fumes.
When I was pregnant with my first little boy, I had read it,
I was walking back and forth, toc ,
not back and forth,
I was walking home from, the college I was going to
in Kentucky.
I was having to walk along the highway.
It was just one day a week.
it was, in,
have no sense of smell,
I couldn't smell this,
it would make me sick,
I'd be real tired anyway
just from walking
along the highway.
Golly, bad.
all the exhaust.
that was four years ago, too,
it's probably a lot worse now.
I'm sure.
can really feel it, in your breathing, even normal people,
if you're older, you can really deplete your oxygen,
it'll, pass out,
killed several people.
Do you, smoke?
one in the evening if that.
I'm a very, very light smoker.
it's kind of l ,
It was kind of funny.
They were doing some, ozone testing, E P A
they were just screening some candidates,
I don't think I'd ever, do that,
they, asked me if I was a smoker,
I didn't fit into the smoker's category,
I didn't fit into the nonsmoker's category.
just one of those
because you do smoke one a day.
in between people.
that kind of threw them off.
they're doing a lot of research here, the E P A
For the air pollution.
For ozone, and yeah, all that.
real big into it.
They've got Research Triangle Park here,
just doing a stuff.
I don't hear much about it down here.
Course, Texas, we don't have a bunch of
too, we've got that air coming in off the coast.
it'd blow it up north.
maybe that's part of the reason it's not so bad down here.
it would seem like it would be the same way the California coastline, wouldn't it?
gosh, I think I would hate to live in California, the smog there.
I can't believe they have warnings here, which mainly just when it gets real, real hot.
they usually have that everywhere because of the humidity especially.
that's kind of good to know,
I lived in a halfway decent area.
I think they do that for most everybody.
usually for the young children and
older old people.
you ought to come to North Carolina.
It's a big change .
It is?
There was no trees where I was from, in Amarillo,
here they've got the mountains, the beach, the trees,
they've got streams, rivers, ponds,
it's really pretty here.
this is pretty wooded area down here
Is it?
of parts,
I know Texas is supposed to be flat,
they've got, down by the Denison Dam
there's a lot of,
Sherman and Denison,
do you know my grandparents live in Durant?
They do?
They live close then.
real close.
I go there,
In Durant, Oklahoma?
You go where?
you go to visit them?
we used to go fishing in Lake Texoma.
down by Lake Texoma there's a bunch of wooded area.
Kentucky's beautiful.
They've got trees,
trees are supposed to, purify.
You know what the best indoor purifying plant is for smoke and stuff?
It's a philodendron.
It's supposed to filter the air for you, in your home.
I'm going to have to get some.
I had one.
My husband bought it for me when my daughter was born ago.
Do you smoke?
I do.
Do you?
I do.
Did you smoke were pregnant?
I did.
I couldn't make myself quit.
I did cut down a lot .
I can understand that,
got one vice
I try not to cuss,
very little,
and smoking, got in the habit of it when I was about thirteen.
one thing I miss the people from Texas,
I miss their morals, their values and everything.
we're down here at the Bible belt, aren't we?
I wasn't saved until I got down here,
people down here are just,
there's so many Christians,
it's so different from Kentucky
How'd you get involved in this research?
I worked at T I for a while,
then my brother in law works there,
he got me into it.
I see.
How'd you get into it?
was taking a voice I O class actually doing some research,
they told me about this project.
it's fun,
I like talking to new people.
I've been interrupted by my little girl,
I've had to hang up and stuff.
I enjoy it.
I talked to people from, now
up in, Boston, and New York,
Boston is New York, isn't it?
Boston's above.
Boston, Massachusetts .
I've talked to people in New York,
I've talked to a lot of people in Texas,
T I s down here.
I've talked to a lot of people in Texas.
I had one call Charlotte, North Carolina, and Virginia, and,
I can't remember where all.
From up north, like you said,
I think one was from Boston.
With Boston, I love their accent .
I do,
I love the Boston
I met a girl from Boston one time.
My husband was in the service,
we went from Kentucky to Louisiana
down here to Texas,
his family's
down here.
We're out of the service now.
I bet you're glad.
he got out of right after Panama.
when Noriega was doing all that.
he ...
it seems to me
I do not know whether the jury system,
should not say I do not know.
I do not feel very, stronger that the jury system should be changed.
It seems to have worked, time immemorial.
when, difficult decisions, are made, they generally prove out to be right by things that occur later on.
I know in some cases now in some states, depending on the criminal code, a unanimous verdict is not required.
indeed some juries are no longer twelve people,
they are down to as six people petty, in, in minor felonies, misdemeanor trials.
I think that the judges should be left to do most of the sentencing, simply because, there is always, there is,
there is always a jury that might be swayed, by the moment, be too lenient or too vengeful, I guess.
On the other hand, are more apt to, understand, crowding problems and things like that,
and have that sway their decisions one way or the other.
is not that,
is that a reflection then of what is really happening in the real world?
if they keep giving everybody hundred year sentences, and the people in various states, it does not seem that people want to be taxed to build more prisons. Or even for that matter, repair lack of judges and other,
I think that is what is happening.
I think, the judges are trying to save the people from having to,
the cost of new prisons.
that might be it.
they are saying,
they certainly,
I do not,
people cannot
I don't know how
afford it.
it is in Virginia,
in Florida now, without any specific recommendation for, waving the normal, procedures.
the eighteen years will, translate into something like, four point seven, if the prisoner is a model prisoner,
indeed the present overcrowding conditions, prevail.
I guess, there was some credit for time this guy had already spent in jail waiting for trial.
you might be right about that.
I do not know,
it just seems to me that only about ten percent of the come for trial anyway.
only about, or five percent of,
very end
less than half the cases that go to trial, end up
With a conviction?
with the jury actually making the verdict.
That most of it is plea bargained, half way through
most of the cases are plea bargained anyway.
how do you feel jury system itself?
think that should be changed?
know in Virginia smaller juries
I do not know exactly what the size of the juries.
I know one of my friends was, brought up for jury duty.
he only heard very, piddly type cases.
Most of it was, robberies or things like that,
it was not any serious crimes.
apparently even for the smallest crimes, they give the person felony anyways.
I guess we,
give the person the option for a jury.
I guess we always focus on criminal trials jury.
I know you have a right to ask for a jury in,
in any sort of a case that even where damages are, are the result of some sort of action that you are bringing against someone else. You can ask
for that to be heard before a jury.
Takes a heck of a long time, I guess, to get there
in some states.
I do not know,
I should imagine Virginia, from what I read, is like every other state.
is faced with, enormous costs to maintain the jury system and the prison system and the entire trial system.
I guess,
everywhere I read that there is a shortage of judges.
Not that they won't appoint them
there is no budget for them, I guess.
and the courthouse that goes with them and the bailiffs and the clerk,
court clerks.
it seems,
I do not think I would change it.
The more I verbalize it, do not think I would want to change the system.
I do not
I do not think I would either.
know what we would replace it with .
I know,
it, does seem like the, the purpose of getting people in jail so that,
I cannot think of the word I am looking for.
the deterrent.
For people commit the cri , to not to commit the crime is sort of gone away.
People have,
I do not know,
they just do not care any more.
The benefit, I guess, of crime outweighs what the deterrent is.
people that,
there are so many people in prison.
the prison population, as far as
my impression of it is doubled in the last ten years and tripled in the last twenty.
I mean it,
grown some too.
definitely is, to me worst things that could ever happen, from what I read and see and understand.
I do no think I could handle prison.
it would be
I would be interested in
very difficult,
finding out what the, percentage of drug related type things are,
there must be a,
ca , a, a, a very great degree of that.
there again do not know if jury system itself, comes in to play there.
I would think that,
one of the things that sort of bothers me is the ability,
of course is a constitutional right that the press must have here, is interviewing of jurors after the trial.
seems to me that when a jury makes a decision, they should not be asked, before television cameras and newspaper reporters how they reached that decision.
I do not,
I imagine there is a right of the press to have the ability to ask that.
would think did anything, I would protect the juror any sort of an inquisition after .
I know,
on the other hand though, when, after the Barry trial,
up here, the big local
as well as national.
I do a lot of business up in Washington.
I was there trial actually,
the opposite was true of me.
after the case was over, I was like, somebody get ahold of these people and find out why in the world did they vote the way they did,
It was like, a picture is not good enough.
We want to see,
I do not know what they wanted honestly .
Did they want the guy to, I do not know. *
just because you feel like he was being kicked on, which he certainly was,
no doubt in my mind the federal government picked him out and selected him to be
I felt that way.
I felt,
I felt,
it does not matter.
The guy was obviously
guilty .
Yeah .
I always balanced situation.
I remember the jurors,
I thought to myself,
found him
guilty on one count. punishable,
to the degree that they thought it.
I do not know,
maybe when you are there yourself and you are sitting there and you have got to make a judgment on somebody.
And the prosecutors do a lousy job,
or maybe the evidence was not as sensational as the media presented it.
I am not making excuses for .
That might be it.
I think we are getting,
I think I am getting a call coming in.
. Okay.
All right, nice
it has been nice
talking with you.
Thank you.
to you.
Bye bye.
What you mean, my voice?
I am from Kentucky.
Originally .
the topic today was gardening,
and lawn care?
I know,
we are about to hit it in minutes.
I figured I could make this call and get it over with.
We are going to mow and trim and
that is all we have been doing all weekend.
You know what?
It seems like we are doing it here forever.
We bought large house that was completely unlandscaped.
was up to your shoulder thistles.
That was all that was there.
we hired a professional landscaper to do it.
I have since then probably ripped out half of what he has done because it has always been incorrectly planted
the plants do not make the winter time.
I am kind of at this point getting a little bit broke and deciding that what we are going to do is we are just going to struggle through the rest of this year,
probably through the Fall too. And,
all the rest of these junipers or anything that requires, more care than I am willing to give the kids and replace it with hollies.
how many kids do you have?
Just two,
they are just eighteen months apart so it seems like a lot more.
are they?
Four and five.
Four and five.
I have got old and a four month old. And an eight year old stepdaughter.
I have a twenty six year old stepson,
I do not know if that counts.
you do not have to tend to him.
I did for many years.
you did.
It is over with.
He is gone.
It is over with.
back to gardening.
Are you one of these, Howard Garrett, organic enthusiasts or a,
Neil Sperry, nuke the lawn with chemicals?
If I can just nuke it, I would do it.
I do not.
I just,
it is like, I will get out there and pull my weeds.
I do not have a real big front yard.
I do have half of it is a flower bed,
just about, all by the porch.
the porch is pretty big,
I live in town.
just pulling all the weeds out of that just drives me nuts.
I do not like it.
I just went out this weekend and bought me some plants and stuff.
I just plowed through the whole nine yards.
Got up everything.
There was some plants that are just Spring bloomers
were just horrible looking.
I just broke all them off.
It was a hyacinth.
Have you ever seen those?
they are pretty in the Spring .
the leaves, I do not like them.
All right,
are you sure they are hyacinths?
that is a bulb.
It is a bulb.
you should of just ripped the whole thing out.
because plant in the Spring.
I love those pink flowers.
They are just pretty.
I just cut the leaves off and transplant and put some other plants down. Because I want them to come back up next year.
Have you had,
is this the first year they have been up?
let me tell you, they do not come back very well at all.
Maybe they will up further north.
But down,
you are not that much further north.
I have probably planted , around here, maybe six hundred bulbs.
Of hyacinths?
I have probably
of everything.
have done hyacinths.
I have just learned from doing hyacinths that if you really like them what you do is you dig the bulbs up and then you throw them away after they are done blooming. Because they do not take the heat here.
if they do come back next year, they are going to look real puny.
they will?
About the only that repeats well in my area is the, daffodil and some of the narcissus bulb.
I have got some daffodils.
down here calls these flags. the irises I guess,
They call them flags?
That is what they call them down here.
They get, just one bloom on the plant.
sure what they are called.
When does it,
I do not much,
does it bloom?
I think they are stopped blooming now, in the Spring.
what color?
has got gr ,
they come in all different colors.
The blooms are, on some of them is yellow, purple, white. Just all different colors.
you only get one of them?
per bulb.
You get one big flower that looks like a lily.
I do not know what they are called.
I have always called them,
I do not know what I have called them .
when I come down here, everybody told me they are flags.
what I bet you they are?
good gardener
I have killed a lot of things here
I have planted a lot of them.
I work on a, landscape committee for our neighborhood.
our neighborhood is a planned development with, I think, it is seven hundred and fifty five families.
we have about sixty acres that we have to plant.
I am going to bet you that is a lily. Because it is,
It is some type of lily.
I will get,
is it,
what color yours blooming?
I have got some in the backyard that bloomed blue. Which I liked those in the front because they match my porch and stuff better. And then some on the side of the house with the dusty purple color. With little purple spots that will fade into a solid purple.
what does the foliage look like?
Does it fit that,
Green spiky leaves.
it looks almost like a hyacinth only lot higher.
is a bulb.
is a Dutch iris.
Dutch irises.
I bet you it is a Dutch iris.
on the flower, does it have a beard on it at all? Any kind of fuzzies?
really do not know.
I am going to bet you that,
that has got to be blooming this time of year.
It has,
they're died down. they are dead now.
I was
They bloom in the Spring.
just going to correct myself.
they would have bloomed pretty early.
They bloomed in the Spring.
Right about after the daffodils?
Right about the same time or after.
I will bet you those are Dutch iris.
and just mowed over them last year.
we have been,
do not much care for them.
After the bloom dies, they are not pretty.
to me it just looks like a bunch of leaves.
I took them out of my front yard,
I just threw them on the side, intending to transplant them or throw them away or something.
And forgot about them through the whole Winter.
I went out there this Spring,
they had took root right where they were, on top of each other.
they told me that they are the hardest things to,
to kill.
they are real easy to grow.
Does that help? .
then a Dutch iris then.
sure what it is.
They said that they are irises.
It is some type of iris though.
they call them flags
I am not so sure that Texans know they have got.
I do not know what it is.
I am just getting into gardening this year.
Did you just move down here?
we moved here a year ago .
last Spring.
We moved in of last year.
it was really too late to do much.
who, who.
I have probably got, a big circular driveway.
The whole, perimeter bordering the house is all in Texas wildflower beds.
I am into that.
looks quite formal.
it really does,
it looks
that is,
quite formal.
it has been about three or four years of, playing around with flowers to which ones actually grow here.
what kind of blue?
I am wanting bl ,
You want blue?
I want blue and purple and, just different shades of that. house is gray,
blue looks so pretty
against it.
blue is hard,
Do you want a perennial flower that will bloom all Summer?
I bought,
I would like to have one that would bloom next year too.
That will come back up.
Put in a perennial blue salvia.
Now eighteen inches tall.
it will send out a flower spike.
You will see them blooming now.
It is a wildflower here,
you can get them in the nursery.
I am looking for a pen.
I want to write this down because,
that is where I went this year.
I waited too late to really plant stuff.
I did not know that these hyacinths,
like I said, I do not know anything about plants.
I did not know the were going to die.
the, men you things here.
kind of in a labor of love.
The other thing to do if you, like the hyacinths, is that before you plant those bulbs, stick them in the refrigerator for five weeks or so to cool them.
That is what I did with my plants.
I had bought these, colossians
Celosias or whatever.
they will not grow down here.
that will bloom all Summer long
it insists on full sun.
just about nineteen dollars worth of little planted,
already grown.
it looks pretty good out there.
I will tell you another plant that is purply .
it, it is blue red.
It is really a pretty plant.
It is sold down here as Purple Buddy.
Purple Buddy?
it's not,
it is not a perennial,
it is an annual.
it will take the heat down here.
Purple Buddy.
Purple Buddy.
Its proper name is Gomphrena.
How do you spell that?
G o m p h r e n a.
is sold as Purple Buddy or sometimes sold as straw flower.
they make, about a foot high plant.
they send out spike that has this purple ball on the top of it.
that purple ball,
Wayne, I, feel very strongly about parents doing things with their children, and making time available even sometimes when time isn't available.
How do you feel about it?
I feel much the same way.
I've, two kids right now
one is two and a half
one's nine months,
that age, of course, everything you do they're trying to learn to do,
it's important for you to spend time doing the things that you want them to learn, they need to learn at the age,
playing nice with others, and that sort of thing.
we went through this with our children, and now with our grandchildren,
I've always tried to do things with them, like, when you're at the little league, helping out even though I'm not a good athlete myself,
I was able to help the coach just controlling the kids, if nothing else,
we've always, tried to take our children and at this age our grandchildren to see and do things that otherwise they might not be able to.
I think that's just part of their overall educational process, is to get out and see and do things.
we have, lived several places around the U S
lived, we've taken them to see and do things of interest and of historical significance in the area,
when we lived in Tennessee, took them to Washington, D C to see all the capitol things like that when they were small.
helps, I think, the children say, I've been there and I've seen that.
that's the type,
it certainly does, because, the things in the books seem so dead to the kids, unless they've actually been there or whatever,
I remember our family, we went everywhere.
seeing New England and, being on Plymouth Rock and stuff like that was
really made the whole thing more, visual.
we could, read the things in the history books and understand what they said, when it was like, quickly
because this place gets very cold very soon.
gone through that,
I remember my parents didn't do all those type things,
I made a special effort with my children to do things like that.
even now with my grandchildren, I feel it's a very important thing to be done.
because if, kids don't look up to you, feel they can spend time with you, they're going to find someone else
nowadays there's a lot of people out there that you don't want your kid or whatever.
I can remember one of the things I'm most proud of is, when my son was,
I think it was in the sixth grade,
they had to write little brief autobiography of themselves, and about what they had done and what they wanted to do,
I was very proud when my son wrote that he wanted to, have a family and be able to help coach little league and do things like his dad had done with him.
A real point of pride with me.
that is nice.
it sounds like we both have colds.
ten o'clock here in Falls Church, Virginia.
that the only reason I'm home is because I'm home with a cold .
the wife says, you need something to do,
talk to a guy on the phone.
I'm sitting here on the ninth floor of an office building on the north side of Dallas, Texas.
we're kind of far apart here.
Yeah .
This is a very interesting program heard about here on this,
when I signed up for it, it, looked like it could a real contribution in participating.
I'm an electrical engineer by trade
here in Virginia.
Likewise, do some projects every now and then.
We like to get support from, companies as well.
I'm an accountant presently working as a contractor liquidating a failed savings and loan .
Trying to work myself out of a job .
it's been an interesting, roughly, nine months here,
this is our home area.
We've lived here about seventeen years,
we enjoy living here.
It's where we originally started out,
we've lived up north for a while in Chicago and over in Tennessee.
wound up back about two hundred miles from where we started out.
Yep .
that's about all I can think to talk about right now.
It's been a pleasure talking with you.
Thank you.
Bye bye.
All right
you live in Dallas?
I live in Dallas.
I understand that, real estate market out there has really gone crazy, up and down, up and down.
I think right now kind of bad .
I don't live in a house,
I live in an apartment .
you in a house?
we have a single family home in northern Virginia just outside of Washington.
I guess the best I can do compare apartments .
(( If it can )) compare the one that I have now,
with the one that I had the last time, the one that I have now, has a lot more amenities, than the one that I moved out of.
this one, gave us free cable and, ceiling fans
it was practically new when I moved in here
the carpet was new
Do you live in the high rise?
it's not a high rise.
It's just two story building.
there are a lot of buildings
it's just two stories.
on the second floor a patio
they have a sunroom instead of the patio.
On the first floor, where I am, there's a patio.
have one floor all to yourself?
The rooms are nice and large
let's see, two bedrooms.
(( )) ,
that's nice.
Do you get your own washer, dryer?
I have a washer and dryer area
did buy the washer and dryer,
they didn't provide it.
The one that I moved from have a place to put them,
that's one of the reasons that I did move.
That is nice.
Get tired of dragging clothes to the laundromat .
tell me ab ,
I've always, been pretty lucky.
The real estate out here's been pretty good.
the prices of, the prices came down last year.
sort of like a Dallas syndrome .
The past, year and a half prices have gone down which is totally new for northern Virginia.
(( It just )) ,
It just never happened before.
(( It's a real good )) ,
it's really surprising everybody.
All the developers don't know what to do .
it's a good time to buy,
if you're in the market.
unfortunate ,
our house on the market because we have two kids
have a three bedroom house.
it's pretty much filled up right now.
you want a bigger one.
Get an extra bedroom or a basement.
Right now it's just single level rambler.
One thing about the houses Dallas, they don't, utilize basements the way they did in New York.
My parents in New York had, a, three family house.
Actual (( )) a,
two family house where the downstairs and the second floor they had,
they rented the third floor with the whole apartment,
they had a basement,
finished the basement,
they were able to rent that out also.
in Dallas I just haven't seen basements in houses.
I've looked at a lot of them, (( )) .
a friend of mine was thinking about coming down there,
that's what he said was that, it just wasn't something that people had down there.
it's a ,
They put pools and garages on,
but, no basements .
I have yet to see a basement in a house.
Maybe it's all the sand.
Is there a lot of sand in,
I always think it's like a desert,
I don't know.
(( )) Dallas always,
I don't see that kind of sand here.
there are some areas though they have a problem with, the houses kind of sinking a little bit
the foundation is sinking or something. bit, some more than others.
have to know the right spot,
pick where that doesn't happen.
(( )) ,
out here live in what used to be, a prairie or whatever a grasslands.
it's just, you go down four inches
any place where they put a basement in they had to blast .
I see.
It's just solid sandstone.
Where did you say you're at, Colorado?
(( That's right )) .
it's sort of unusual really.
Most of Virginia is clay.
Anywhere near, Virginia Beach?
folks used to live there.
Back before I was born,
they lived there.
different areas in Dallas have different kind,
Texas I'll say
down in east Texas there's a lot of red clay.
Dallas, Fort Worth city areas you don't see that.
Texas is a big state
I imagine type of houses and, things like that are truly different from area to area .
that's the same way out here
we live fifteen miles from the beltway that surrounds Washington
anything instead the real estate's forty thousand dollars more expensive.
I could never afford a house inside the beltway.
That's why we came out here.
This is called the country, with only, maybe twenty miles total from D C, twenty five
from the city.
it's considered the country since it's, that far out.
(( )) ,
we live out by Dulles Airport.
I see.
that's one of the few places still in northern Virginia
they have trailer parks that are down around the corner from here
still pretty rural.
not too much of northern Virginia is like that anymore.
Land has gotten so expensive
they just can't afford to have low income housing like that.
is your house in an area by itself?
we're in a development.
it's not connected to another one?
there's another one half an acre away,
a quarter acre away rather.
connected are they?
You have to, (( stay in one )) single family home.
I sort of got spoiled with that when I was growing up.
my folks, had an apartment for a while when we were kids
for the most part always had,
Pennsylvania always had a single family home
as soon as we could got a single family home,
that's all I ever knew growing up,
I stayed in a townhouse for, two years and then, saved up enough money get a,
Hello .
this is Betty
I'm in Richardson, Texas.
I'm Nola
I'm in Plano.
here we go .
I guess we're going to have a lot of parades this weekend in honor of these guys some stuff over in the Gulf.
did you push one?
I haven't pushed one yet.
I just,
I think it's,
I just started doing this
I don't know too much about it.
we're just sort of getting acquainted here.
just wanted to see if, you had an opinion about this,
if that's okay with you, then I'll just press one.
That will be fine.
Okay .
hi, .
Good morning.
I start this I just wanted to say that, one of the things that I don't think we really understood about middle eastern situation is that they're a totally different type of people than we are,
they think differently
their idea of what is justice is totally different from ours.
right now, think that that's been proven in the fact that, they have just,
I just think that, the United States policy over there,
I think we should just leave them alone.
I really do. a major way because I think needs to settle it's own differences within itself.
that's that they should go,
we can maybe help them a little bit, prompt them,
I don't think this intervention at such high levels should be going on.
thing with Israel and Palestine, I believe that should be settled between them.
also, the other thing is of democracy has nothing to do with them.
talking about the whole middle ea ,
maybe this is too general,
I just believe that, they do not look at democracy the same way we do.
They don't understand it as we don't understand the way they live.
trying to put a square peg in a round hole is just,
don't think that that's the way to go in this
that's, that's a couple thoughts on it.
guess, I'd like you to maybe express something here.
I think overall that's right.
I think it's kind of sad though, that, for generations they've been taught to hate each other.
somewhere in there someone's going to have to learn a different way.
think that,
true we do have completely different ways of looking
at the same time, I think good that the United States and other countries can do, as far as example
, I think some different things could come from what's happened, than what we expect.
ye ,
guess we could be a catalyst for their change.
the war has certainly sort of set things on end over there
I don't think we'd be talking about this, sort of came to a head, unless there had been a war.
that was one thing,
that came out of it, good or bad,
don't judge any war as good or bad,
it's just a war.
I don't see any winners or losers,
I just see dead bodies.
I'm sorry.
I just think, you're right
I think maybe it's at a whole different level of them trying to cooperate and get along.
It's not going to be that we're going to, sort of, tell them to go to their room
that's going to solve the whole problem.
It's going to be them,
that's the type of thing they understand.
They don't understand any other way.
you have to work at their level,
to an extent, too.
true too,
They wouldn't have understood anything than what we did in the war.
understand violence.
There was nothing else.
They love violent leaders, to,
look at, the leader they had.
just adored him,
because he was so strict and cruel,
for a while there he had them, be ,
I can't figure out why they adored him.
it has a lot to do with their religion.
I got to say,
that over there,
I know this only because from personal experience that I'm speaking of this,
traveled around town with different cab drivers in a situation where I've done that
of the kindest people I've ever met in my whole life, is from that area of the country
is abounding in kindness, let's say.
his wife is so godly, every thought,
they have a totally different life than we have.
when you add the, commercialization of the western world it sort of screws everything up for them.
they have very basic life,
it's just a very basic life
they just really believe in Allah, or God, or whatever.
to the glory of Allah,
almost like,
What's sad is that the leaders that have control
are power,
using that,
they abuse that.
it's always been military
it's always been,
always been the way of the world. Don't you think .
Which I think that that's not way the majority of the people over there really are.
it's really hard, when you see the leaders, compared to the people.
way the war, I think in a way all, the involvement over there too, though, has shown that don't follow what those few are doing.
there are a lot of people who are good people.
think we may not have ever have seen that without some of these, newspeople being in there in the broadcasts and soldiers leaving, surrendering and,
and surrendering,
that was,
trying to get out of that situation.
it just really comes down to people are people,
you have to have some compassion some humanness.
That's right.
Doesn't matter where the boundaries are.
there are political boundaries
those are man made boundaries,
for heaven sakes, that's something that's been going on for ages,
think so much of it is what you're taught.
that's true.
they teach their children, in such a way that,
I guess, I'll just start by saying that we entertain with, a gourmet club here. which means that we have people, four couples.
most of the husbands,
this is really peculiar,
most of the husbands cook.
the wives during the day, get, I guess, so burned out on cooking whatever they have to cook every day.
they don't really care about gourmet stuff,
it was the guys that got together and did all this.
that's nice.
my husband just, he really, really likes to cook in terms of, barbecue,
all guys, I think, like to barbecue.
I think it's caveman,
I'm telling you,
he really does cook
it's a good thing because, knock that.
all these other guys do too,
we've gotten together
we just do these really elaborate gourmet meals.
it's really, really kind of a neat thing to do.
How often do you meet?
we try,
everybody is so active with their kids and all that.
It's like, if we can do it once every six months, we're doing well .
we originally started out, when we were younger
and didn't have so much stuff going on with the kids.
then do it every other month,
lately it's just been once every six months .
that's much more reasonable.
I was involved in club where we tried to really do gourmet, meals.
were a little bit too frequent I think.
I don't remember if we were once a month
By the time we went around it was, four couples
by the time we got around, to each of us and it was time again, we were almost tired,
really .
partly because, gourmet cooking is not particularly conducive for regular dining.
It's too rich.
it is absolutely.
we found that while we enjoyed the evening we regretted it the next day.
Yeah .
kind of,
one of the couples, moved
we sort of continue it,
I must admit that as you say when your children start taking up your time, then don't have as much time for, regular entertaining,
we entertain I usually try to find something that will be, kind of for everybody
that sometimes means you can't do gourmet,
because depending on who your guests are.
that's true.
we have a gourmet friend that can't stand fish
he can get within,
one of my friends doesn't eat any cheese at all.
that's a real problem because so many dishes require cheese.
I take that back.
she can't eat some cream cheese.
really limits,
It sure d ,
it makes you, keep looking for recipes every time you have an eye out,
for something like,
try to keep all that in mind,
otherwise, I guess, entertaining,
guess I have recipes
basically what we do is the gourmet,
they would be pretty elaborate.
it's fun.
it took us four days to cook a stock and three days to make this stuff,
you get all prepared
you're right.
It's very, very rich
I'm glad we don't have it every,
it really is.
Sounds wonderful.
you like food
I just love community of food.
I just,
I do too.
think it's neat.
I just love sharing meals and,
and whatever you can do, to do that.
I don't think you have to be, more than hamburgers and hot dogs out,
in the backyard and the,
and the coleslaw and potato salad.
my, daughter is graduating, Sunday
we're having,
a, few people in Sunday afternoon.
I did a cop out on to it
I'm buying cold cuts .
I have to,
(( What are you providing )) ?
make a cake
I have to make hors d'oeuvres
I have to make dessert
I figured for the main thing it's going to be sandwiches.
There you go.
I'm buying the little tiny rolls and so on.
I can't do it, working full time
it's just too much.
I know.
We're all not built like,
Those people that try to do everything.
Martha Stewart,
Yeah .
We all aren't Martha Stewart and have our coordinated glasses and tablecloths and,
Ugh .
and time to,
Wouldn't that be nice? .
Shot a video of the whole thing,
(( I don't know )) .
really kind of a neat thing.
I get a kick out of it.
really do.
Everything, all parts of the food,
I love to make things from scratch,
Making breads
people really pretty much appreciate it.
they do.
very difficult to purchase, items that are as good as what you can make yourself.
I think so.
in spite of,
do buy it, it's extremely expensive.
In fact, I just got back from a shopping trip to the cold cuts
bought turkey and pastrami barbecued ham at Amish market near here.
I've never been there before.
And found that there's, individual vendors
the foods are wonderful.
one of vendors had cakes. All sorts of wonderful cakes. fresh cheesecake now so on.
it's like thirteen fifty for a whole strawberry cheesecake. which is really not such a bad price.
I decided just couldn't quite make myself, buy it because I do make cheesecake
There you go.
I didn't want to do that because it,
I was very tempted because it looked wonderful,
had black forest cherry cake and all those things.
They are not, commercial bakery made.
in that they are made in their homes,
kind of interesting,
it's out there if you want to pay the price
it is.
we have bakeries around here that, just gain weight going by the door,
just like that.
just smelling the air .
I don't know
I guess some of the best things I've ever had, some of them were just hors d'oeuvres,
Doing little hors d'oeuvre things that, I have a kick making that, .
I get off on strange little details of food, I guess.
gee, we have so much going on here because this is Dallas,
this is the southwest,
this is,
chips and Picante sauce and anything hot.
you can always make it hotter,
lots of stuff like that,
That's, a really good party time,
eating all that hot food
they just love it, down here.
It just
We like hot food too,
all the stuff that goes with that,
You don't sound like you're from Texas originally though.
I'm not.
Thank you for noticing .
I'm from Chicago.
I thought,
how I got,
I thought, that there was a slight difference in accent.
I got to Texas by way,
of Virginia
and everything is a long story.
I'll bet.
you have a favorite hors d'oeuvre recipe that's easy
is it always complicat ,
in fact, it just came to mind,
What was one of the latest ones that you've seen,
we rented PRETTY WOMAN
a couple ago.
The last two years, I have done more theater movie going than I have actually watched videos at home.
become available to come and go more often,
I said "hey, it's worth it,
I'll just go at the matinee hour
I can see what I please."
It's no more costly than renting one.
The last,
I went about two or three weeks ago and saw F X TWO
that is a really good movie, if you like special effects,
kind of gory and lots of,
I have not done that one,
I don't know if I have even heard of that one.
do you know that I don't follow performers,
I don't follow actors.
Some I know,
some I don't.
he was
that played in it, the one that played in it that I liked best was the one who was in, the one about the old people.
He was a blond haired, heavyset alien in COCOON.
know what his name is.
I think I know who you are talking about though.
At any rate, I also saw not long ago ONCE AROUND.
That was with Richard Dreyfuss.
that one was just a very poignant story,
it had people,
a lot of people said it was a really funny movie,
it was,
a very, it was a poignant humor
like, STEEL MAGNOLIAS.
The characters played very well off one another.
there was humor involved,
the story was a very dramatic story,
I enjoyed it very much.
What are some others that you have seen lately?
I'm trying to think,
just the other night on H B O we watched THE HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER,
and that's one that,
That's one I can watch,
over and over and over again.
I was going to read while it was on,
then when it started, I just couldn't, read.
That was a really good movie.
It sure was.
the second time you see it, you understand more subtleties in it.
There are a number of good movies like that.
there's quite a few, movies out now that I would like to go see.
My husband,
is not a real big movie goer,
I guess, more than anything, that is why we don't go.
by the time you get a baby sitter, and then pay to go to the movies
it just gets pretty expensive.
You don't work?
I stay at home.
you are going to have to find a mother's day out and have him call in sick one day.
Go during the day,
that's right.
That's right.
There's nothing wrong with that.
Go in the early hours,
it's a matinee,
it's not crowded
the price is as reasonable as renting a video.
that's the way I do it
I go quite frequently.
If you are going to be planning on doing that,
I was WARLOCK too, which is supposed to be the story of a, witch hunt that is, magically shot into the present time.
the first five minutes or ten minutes of the movie very well persuaded to walk out. Very well persuaded,
there was more gore than I was interested in seeing.
as the movie settles down to a comfortable action, I can't really that it would have gotten more than a star and a half from me either.
the action was comfortable
of course, I enjoyed those good guy, bad guy type conflicts things.
I enjoyed that movie, after the first few minutes of gore.
there were some others,
they were done a little more tastefully.
in the first scene, the warlock chopped off a guy's finger because he wanted the ring and then
bit his tongue out and spit it off in the omelet
I could not handle that.
I said "whoa, I'm glad I have not had dinner".
Then, I saw AWAKENING,
that's a wonderful, wonderful job by Robin Williams and Peter De Niro.
Robert De Niro?
Robert De Niro,
what did I say, Peter?
I think you said Peter.
I said Robert De Niro.
he has done a really good job of characterizing the, disabled person.
of course, Robin Williams always just has air about him that you can't help but enjoy what he is doing.
Even when he's sad, you great faith that he will get happy again.
let's see, there's a couple or three that I would like to go see before they go into videos.
I guess, I can wait another month
they will be videos.
Yeah .
One is SILENCE OF THE LAMBS.
I've heard a lot about that one.
They say if some suspense, that's the one to see.
I understand that's a sequel to an earlier movie that showed about two weeks ago on television.
I think I read about that too.
And then THELMA AND LOUISE,
I think it's time we had a lady abuse the guys movie.
It's about time for one of those.
I want to go see that.
I'm going to try to get in DANCES WITH WOLVES.
you haven't,
I've heard that is wonderful.
I've heard it's wonderful too,
just that they are both very long
the matinee starts before I can get away from work.
that I get involved in other things and don't want to
don't want to go back.
I've heard that's,
rented the other one,
I was trying to think of the other one that we had rented lately, was PRESUMED INNOCENT, with, Harrison Ford,
I guess he's in there.
I thought that was really good.
I saw that
cannot remember too much about it.
It was the one where he was a defense,
not defense,
he was a prosecu , cuter.
there was a murder of one of the women that was in D A 's office.
he ended up being accused of it.
that's right,
I remember now.
I remember.
it really kind of had a turn at the end, when you found out who it was .
I've had a hard time enjoying Harrison Ford in anything since the Indiana Jones movies.
I think he ought to stay Indiana Jones.
I realize that he would like his career to develop,
I don't want to see him in other things.
I tell you, Sean Connery in the HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER,
never did care for him the James Bond movies.
(( I don't know
he was too )) .
I was never into those movies, either.
I didn't care for the type of movie,
he was always slick, and greasy, and seemed to be conceited and had more women than he needed
I didn't like him.
he has really developed into a marvelous character actor as he has come older.
I thought he looked real good with a beard, too.
he does
I don't know,
I think that beard gives him a look that he is always grinning, whether he is or not.
has that merry look about his eyes that looks like he stays in mischief all time.
I enjoy those,
I enjoy some of the Michael J. Fox movies.
I didn't care too much for the last one either.
It just was not enough to it.
What was the last one?
I'm trying to think.
the last,
BACK TO THE FUTURE then (( was the last one )) .
it was called, HARD WAY, where he was an actor, trying to portray
trying to (( )) ,
trying to a policeman.
Hi Ed.
reading a couple of different books,
one a story,
it is not a story,
it is a collection memos, supposedly written by Howard Hughes,
it came out a couple of years ago
I have just now gotten around to reading it.
I have had it a couple years,
Who wrote that?
I do not remember the man's name,
he to be a reporter for, I think, the NEW YORK TIMES, or the WASHINGTON POST, one of the two,
he supposedly this, was contacted by this guy who had memos he wanted to sell,
ones that had supposedly been stolen from the, corporate headquarters Los Angeles.
They, on
I think it was Romain Drive or Romain Street or something, there in Los Angeles,
they used to have a,
I guess they still do,
had a, big warehouse kind of thing, which had offices
it was sort of nondescript size of the company which, inside was basically a store house of a bunch of stuff he collected,
was, a great collector of everything,
he did not, he did not throw anything away
supposedly this guy been breaking there for awhi ,
he was a, burglar, had been breaking there awhile and,
I see.
And had ended up,
he had some accomplices that were kind of suspect,
broke in night and found a bunch of memos that were, supposedly Hughes his back, in the fifties and
that is interesting.
up until his death.
it's pretty interesting work
That is an intriguing type of book to be reading and trying to keep up on things like that.
it's a little hard (( ))
you have to plod through it
it does not have a real story, or any plot,
you just kind of have to read and understand what is going on.
they have not made a movie of the week of it yet.
I have not seen it.
real interesting,
I also reading,
it's another old book that I happen to have.
I am sort of rereading it.
It's, a book about, the Bermuda Triangle,
it's a real good book that a guy, wrote who was, a research librarian,
he wrote, sort of debunking many of stories about the, Bermuda Triangle.
was thinking many,
many of myths, many of the myths of the triangle explained,
Explained (( )) , *
the I it back up was in light of airplanes Atlantic, thinking they were Flight Nineteen.
I don't know if you are familiar with that at all
Flight Nineteen collection of a flight of five Navy adventures at the end of World War Two. Right after World War Two,
Supposedly scooped up by the triangle.
they were.
in the book, even,
he wrote this book back in the seventies,
then had a very good case for the fact they probably just got lost and they ditched in the water.
mentions, goes through and brings out points from the Navy's findings and so forth.
it's probably, real close to what, everyone is thinking, now that, they just got turned around and could not find their way back.
On that same topic, have you ever read anything about, the Amelia Earhart story, whatever happened with her?
I have not.
think that would be,
I am sure there is something out there, (( )) ,
like to, too,
it's a lot of things coming up here lately about her, possibilities (( )) ,
(( I thought she )) was a prisoner of war or something for like ten years.
whatever, this is one aspect of it.
Of course, it is so weird,
no one will ever really know,
tha ,
it's entertaining
it makes you think about things.
That is for sure.
that is pretty much for right now,
that is,
what I have been reading.
I kind of like to read different stuff
I like to read a novel every now and then,
I am trying to get away from just reading novels all the time.
guess I just have not read anyth ,
usually, find a good book, I will sit, for two days until it is finished. If it's that good,
I think the last one I read like that was Scott Thurow's
that was PRESUMED INNOCENT.
I just really, really liked the way he writes.
It's just,
I read that, too.
I got it, right,
after it came out.
he was assistant district attorney in Chicago while he was writing the book,
my sister in law lives in Chicago,
me this book saying, you might like this,
this guy is,
from here.
I read it and really liked it
that is when it really got big.
so I,
That was good, I think.
(( )) .
the other book I am trying to think, was in the last year
I think I did read Tom Wolfe and VANITY,
(BONFIRE OF THE VANITY )) ,
(( BON ))
I have not read that, although,
I have heard it is pretty good.
that was really, really good,
the movie was nothing compared to the book.
that is what I have heard.
I saw the movie,
the movie was a joke compared to,
Tom Wolfe is so perceptive,
when it comes to, pinpointing, society's ills and,
things like that and just nailing people to the wall and exposing things
a much more intense book than the sort of flimflam that they cast off in the movie .
I know.
we are not talking about that,
gee, like to read gardening books and things like that. Just to tell me what to do with my garden
I have a lot of, computer books that
computer work
I have a lot of those.
I spend a lot of time looking through those, not necessarily reading them but,
looking through them.
interested in a lot of that,
I have got a lot of books that intend to read,
I have not been able to yet, for one reason or another.
what is a book on your list,
I have a list too
I have never gotten to it .
gosh, really have a list,
have all the books out,
I have book shelves
I have them all out
usually when I am through with one, I will go in and, through,
I have one now can not remember the name of it got is
the sister in law in Chicago usually sends me for my birthday Christmas or something will send me good book
sh ,
I have one
I can not remember the name of it,
it is supposed to be a mystery.
where have you all been on vacation recently?
my most recent trip was last year,
that was Detroit.
Is that a nice vacation spot?
it wasn't really.
It was, to see an old relative.
it was, just to, have some fellowship with her.
you probably wouldn't recommend that as a big tourist spot?
The only thing that visited that, is quite a tourist spot is Cancun, Mexico.
that would be nice.
that was real nice.
Did you scuba dive there?
we just kind of walked the beaches and looked at all the beautiful scenery there.
that would be nice.
and just kind of relaxed and unwound a little bit,
that would be enjoyable.
from our daily routine.
a nice break.
I haven't been on vacation in a while either.
usually when we go, we go to Colorado, to Estes Park area.
Which is up kind of near Denver.
And, stay in the mountains up there, do a little hiking and resting, get away from the Texas heat, that kind of thing.
that's always refreshing to get away from.
it's a lot of fun.
I worked up there last summer,
I guess it was kind of like a vacation the,
that's nice.
whole summer long .
Worked at a camp there,
I got to spend a lot of time up in the mountains.
that's probably my favorite place when I have to go somewhere on a vacation.
middle daughter and her husband have just taken up a new activity,
that's canoeing.
they've been to the Guadalupe River,
they also, have been to, I guess Colorado,
they've really enjoyed it.
That's nice.
It's a whole new,
we canoed up in Arkansas at the Buffalo River.
that's the best place that I've ever canoed.
It's really, really pretty.
I was a little kid then,
we to have,
we stayed at some park
they had a little mountain man who came down the river every night,
he would give a little talk about mountain things.
I think he wasn't a real mountain man,
we were pretty convinced he was a full,
hermit who lived up in,
the woods, that he'd come in his little log boat down the river,
he'd make sassafras tea out of sassafras roots that he'd found
that's neat.
That's a good family place to go,
the river was really nice because it wasn't too frightening,
it wasn't,
too easy either.
It was like,
you learn a lot of, skills too,
I think you're more receptive when you're younger than when you're older, to learn new skills,
That's true.
I think in your memory, what to do, because you really have a great interest in it.
Because it's something you weren't forced to do ,
you have kind of a relaxed mode of learning.
you're more receptive.
that's good.
we, let's see,
the only other place I've ever vacationed, we'd, go on camping trips up to Texoma and things like that.
I went to England
that's exciting.
a few years ago.
I was a,
student there and spent, a semester studying abroad in London.
that was a great time, because such a neat place
not a language barrier
you don't,
a little bit, because there's some of those English words that you just don't exactly know what they mean,
a lot of people have trouble wrestling with their accents,
really fun.
I really enjoyed that.
I'm probably going back there to work,
for a year.
I had a friend that, visited England probably two years now,
that's her next goal, she can do it, is go back to England,
she really has a great desire to do that,
the love that she, has for it now after visiting it.
really nice.
spend all my time in London,
or most of my time,
really different being in a big city,
I don't get much into areas a lot
it's sort of a weird little anonymous feeling where no one knows who you are
you can spend a whole day without talking to anyone, which I thought I would just hate,
it ended up being kind of nice because you're not accountable to anyone.
You could just kind of ,
Do your own thing.
kind of walk around and observe,
I did a lot of just going out by myself and riding on the subway and watching people.
I had a great time doing that.
It was really interesting.
That's wonderful.
There's a lot out there to see,
I know,
(( I'll say )) .
I keep wanting to get up to,
been anywhere else outside the United States.
I haven't been to Mexico or Canada or,
I lived across the street almost from Canada .
that's a nice place.
Canada is very nice.
that would be nice.
I had a friend from there.
Then love to go somewhere in Asia,
I'd have to have a tour guide with me to
help with all the language and all that.
somebody that knows their way around.
England was nice.
Even, we traveled in Europe for about a week,
that was even nice because there wasn't, the,
most the places to Germany and Switzerland and,
you've been quite a few places there .
we have.
We (( )) .
Once you think about it,
We did, we whirlwinded through,
It was just insane twelve days where we'd just stop like a city a day,
you slept on the train at night.
that's great.
there wasn't a,
it was strange,
it was kind of sad,
there wasn't ever a language problem there, because everyone in Germany knew English
everyone in Switzerland,
knew English.
That's great.
we were kind of pitiful.
We found one restaurant we were in and got seated,
no one knew English in there,
we were just ,
huh .
finally had to break out the phrase book and start looking up things.
it was,
What did you wind up with? .
I had fondue.
That was easy to say .
okay .
Tried to get fondue and white wine,
that was,
we were able to have that effortlessly.
There were some people at the next table who spoke English,
we ,
They kind of guided you.
elicited their aid for a while
they were very helpful
a pleasant time.
love to go back there.
There's just not time .
There's not enough time to go see everything, and then to afford to see everything.
I guess that's why we need to plan for retirement, so when we do have the free time, we'll have means to, pursue our dreams.
That's ,
I guess that's what retirement is all about.
That and sleeping late .
I keep hoping for.
I understand that.
it was nice talking with you.
it was nice talking with you too, Craig.
have a good afternoon.
You do the same.
Thank you.
Good bye.
Bye bye.
do you, keep a family budget
do you have some,
I don't use a family budget,
my father who is very old has kept one his entire life,
I probably against it.
I probably should have kept one.
He keeps every penny that comes in and goes out
on a very strict percentage.
we sort of started doing it years and years ago
my husband started graduate school, when we were first married,
I sort of just got in the habit, I guess. And, never have gotten out of it.
I cannot really say that it's a formal budget,
it's more just a fairly, accurate, recording of what I spend,
and what I think I am going to have to spend.
I think it makes much more sense,
I have recently, gotten out of debt and everything
I will probably a little better,
track of it.
I just, spent whatever came in what came in and what went out.
But, the government runs.
Yeah .
That sounds real similar.
I think it is probably better to have some sort of at least a record
my dad was so precise,
that, if it said to spend eleven percent on something that's what it was spent.
that was put over there
of course, he is from the depression,
so, it's his life,
be smart if somebody would keep, some sort of a plan that works for them.
I think you are right,
must have been sort of interesting to us
because, since I have pretty much kept my record books for the last fifteen years, I guess, I can go back and look
it's real fun to just see how things have changed over the years.
it is.
For instance,
I'm a historian,
my father had kept them, I think, since nineteen twenty seven
My goodness.
he burned the ones from twenty seven to fi ,
I could not believe he did that,
I took the ones from fifty two on to the present,
back into the twenties, thirties and forties, it would have been fantastic,
to see that.
as a matter of fact, my mother was going through some things ago, in an old trunk that she had.
she came upon budget book that she had back in the thirties.
when they,
it was the late,
I guess in the forties, because they had been married, probably fifteen years at the time.
it was just, fascinating to see how little things cost,
it was,
it was just almost laughable in some instances that,
of course, it's all relative, of course,
I know.
never the less it was fun to see those figures next to,
for a of shoes was five dollars
I know,
even in nineteen sixty three,
I found a record that I had, and had paid for hotels.
a similar hotel in Paris is two hundred dollars a night now.
I paid, between four and five dollars,
isn't that,
in nineteen sixty.
that's really crazy,
that's about thirty years ago.
of course, it's just what the market will bear.
That's true.
If people will pay two hundred then why charge ten.
(( )) ,
just good old economics working.
we have tried to, instill sense budgeting in our kids,
our two children are just, as, unlike as night and day.
our son could care less about a budget,
our daughter watches her pennies so closely,
that just sounds like your father,
she has everything planned so closely,
that if,
something goes wrong, it just throws her for a loop .
then you never know how they will,
they may flip flop when they,
get to be, ol ,
we , older.
The other one may be very careful,
she may marry somebody
of course, it would be good because, marry somebody a little loose, then she will have that stability of watching,
You should have one
I think that is true,
in the house.
I think,
I think that is probably what happened in our house
I think my husband was not quite as, good at saving and so on before we got married
really diligent about that.
I was putting money aside I was married, when I was working out of college
that really paid off.
Because when time came for him to go back to graduate school, we were fairly good shape financially as far as not having any major debts.
that's about the way it is here,
if it had not been for my wife, I would have probably been in debtor's prison,
if we had one.
(( )) .
what does you husband do now?
he is an engineer,
he is,
an electrical engineer. And, in fact, went through, many years of graduate school got his P H D
had a years of budgeting .
You have,
to do it when,
you are in school.
When you,
My wife is still in school getting her doctorate,
I'm working,
I have got,
I'm working on my masters degree now,
in fact, this last year we had three,
both of the children were in college,
our son has a year left
our daughter graduated this year
I'm just about ready to finish my masters degree,
we have had, once again, lean year for us.
We had three,
in college, plus my wife,
that was four.
we were both in the same,
you know exactly what it,
what it's like then.
which you learn,
I guess you figure that that is an investment that is, really
That is the best one.
with education you can't,
take that away from you.
That is right,
one that you can live through.
think that that's the way that we looked at it in our beginnings when my husband was in graduate school that there was a light at the end of that tunnel.
it was worth it to save and to not have, something and, in return know that something better was going to be at the end of it
that's true.
it really makes it easier
I have enjoyed talking with you, Jerry.
I have enjoyed talking with you, Kathy.
wish I could hear more about your historian part of your life, because that sounds really fascinating to me.
I am interested in that.
if I had your address, I would send you,
I am also in the travel business,
do tours
I can take some real great tours to Europe.
if you.
and I just went there last year,
we did not take a tour,
were in England went to Ireland and Scotland and just rented cars and,
did it on our own
that sounds interesting.
Is your business in Dallas then?
it's here in Dallas.
In the Quorum.
Jerry Hammond
I'm out at Brookhaven College,
you could just holler at me there.
you are kidding.
I'm going to be teaching at Brookhaven in the fall .
All right,
what is your last name?
Kuenzer, K U E N Z E R,
K U E N,
Z E R.
I will be,
I will,
in the communications department teaching, English One Oh One to,
I have a couple of sections.
I know Zack Miller real well.
that's the guy who hired me,
yes (( )) .
I will look you up in the fall then.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
do you view this whole subject?
Are you, one who feels like you benefited from the change roles in women?
what do you think?
I think so.
there's been a lot of changes.
I think there's still a lot to be made, though.
I think so.
someone who works outside your home,
have you,
I work for T I.
have there been significant changes, do you think in the employment place, say at T I.
anything in particular changed that you have noticed?
During your time there.
I guess there's more women in, what would be classified as a man's job .
kind of work do you do?
I am a drafter.
I am in a man's job .
we have got more women in it now.
There's a lot of us in it.
in years past, I know, in fact, the word drafter (( has )) changed,
it used to be they were draftsman .
we have some engineers that still, on their,
the drawings that they mark up for us they put draftsman.
I want to scratch it out and put drafter .
I thought, I am,
Maybe not,
not going to do that .
was in college,
I graduated from college with my bachelor's degree in nineteen sixty four.
I was a math major, which was a real rarity,
among women at that time.
I was in a lot of classes where, was either the only girl or, one of just a very,
few women in the class.
that was a change
even, (( )) , I did not, use my math, in my work,
became a technical writer.
even so, there were very, very few women in technical writing.
that has changed a lot.
In recent years it has just changed a lot.
I think that, the one thing that I have seen is that more and more women are getting into management,
I think they have got a long way to go .
There was something on T V the other day that said that fewer than one or two percent of the
of the board are women in this country.
I thought that, that's small number.
there are strides to be made there.
I do not know,
think we have come a long way,
when I think about, when things were like even, was in high school,
and how it is now for girls.
Do you,
I guess the one, my one bad thing is my mother had had some of those opportunities, because, I think succeeded in a lot of ways,
were not able to succeed,
in her,
Do you have children?
I was going to say do you have daughters.
That's always a good question.
Do you?
In fact, I have a daughter who just graduated in civil engineering, from college.
she is pretty much, although there were some other women in her class,
she was, one of the minorities,
females in the class.
she definitely entering into, a male profession.
(( )) for instance the organization (( )) Engineers,
that is recognized,
as, a place where women should be.
I do not know,
see it in church, where more and more women are becoming ministers.
protestant congregations
it will be interesting to see Roman Catholicism ever, recognizes women in,
in the role of priest.
not know if you are Roman Catholic or,
what you know about that.
I am not either,
that is one area I can see might change, but I really doubt will change .
Not for a long time anyway.
probably not.
in particular would you think are being, (( )) found wanting, or not as men would be.
I was just trying to think.
I know something.
Maybe you could te ,
tell me what you think about this.
the role of women in combat roles during the war?
I know that they want the armed forces to recognize that women can serve in combat roles.
the only, branch in the armed that seems willing to do that is the Air Force.
I spoke because women were missions in the Persian Gulf war.
I know some of the other services do not think that women are capable of doing the job.
It was real interesting,
listening to some of the comments on the other day,
about it,
the men who was a,
I do not know if he was a general or, what his rank was, very high.
He said, (( )) it's just a personal thing with me.
you why I feel this way,
but I just would rather have, a man doing some of these jobs than a woman.
I thought, at least he was honest .
that does not sit very well with a lot of folks, I am sure .
There's some men out there that are more feminine than most women .
right .
(( )) as far as I am concerned, (( )) I could be wrong about this, the only one area where a woman could not do it is if she just physically did not have the strength,
to do something.
(( )) mentally, and emotionally, I think women can handle a job and,
I do too.
every bit as well.
it's still (( )) ,
if she wanted to go to combat,
I do not see that they should stop her.
I personally would not want to go
I would not either.
I agree
I am sure that there are women who relish that,
kind of job.
I guess that should be taken into consideration,
as well.
this is an interesting topic,
having a daughter who has gone
I sort of watched progress to see if she did anything differently than I did .
huh .
She's a lot more forthright about her opinions and,
a little more assertive, than I think I was .
progress, I guess .
Yeah .
I have enjoyed talking with you Lisa,
same here.
have you talked with a lot of people in this project
I am not a lot.
I am at work right now.
I put my work number,
at home, the recorder gets my calls.
Usually, I am not there,
I probably talked to seven or eight people.
that's great,
that's good.
I personally have not made any calls yet, myself,
just, it never crosses my mind.
I enjoy receiving them.
that's good,
that's good,
I guess I placed all but one or two of my calls.
And, only because I going to make some money,
see is doing this as a money project.
got the connection through a T I, church member.
so we are doing it to raise money for, a large project at church,
so I feel like this is one way I can contribute that's
not too painful .
That's wonderful.
Financially painful, anyway.
It's just real nice that way
I thought, I will just get on the stick and do it.
that's great.
I will say good bye to you,
I have enjoyed the conversation.
thanks for calling.
Thank you.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
Hi Pat.
One of the interesting things that I have considered about the role change for women is that women of were trained and taught and brought up to be the LEAVE IT TO BEAVER housewives.
we are not living in that world.
We are certainly not,
our families have changed.
Society has changed.
Everything has changed.
huh .
That's one of the,
it makes you really concerned.
I am glad I raised guys.
let the world train them what to do .
characteristically, the women are trained, or have been in the past trained in the home.
I really would be at a loss raise and train a girl.
I think I would.
raising boys today is different though, because,
they are expected to do so much more than they used to.
used to be they would just go off to work and come home,
everything was done.
a different world.
some good, some bad,
it's nice that there's a choice.
have chosen to stay at home,
and raise my children.
I have a ten year old and a twelve year old.
I was a single parent for awhile and worked.
that was great,
provide for my children
that was wonderful.
thank God everyday now that I have that choice.
And that I am able to do things at home
I volunteer a whole lot.
that's my job right now.
love it.
I really love it.
I did very much the same thing until my boys got into high school and said Mom, please do not be involved.
Then I went back to work.
that will come.
I know that day will come,
I am looking forward to that too.
that's a different phase in my life,
glad that I am able to do what I want to do right now.
there's a lot of things that have happened,
it's like oil on top of water,
it changes
it's never different
in a lot of ways.
women at one time did very heavy physical labor
and, were expected to maintain a household.
Then as times changed, as it is today, we do not do a lot of physical labor,
and homemaking,
there's not a lot of physical labor,
because, there are,
You are not beating rugs,
you are not,
doing laundry by hand and that kind of thing.
in that respect, we have to make ourselves become involved in physical exertion,
we really do develop some health problems.
respect I am not so sure that the hard work of years past was not better for us than we are willing to admit.
don't you think it's that way with men too?
men are sitting behind desks a whole lot more,
absolutely true
than they used to.
that's true with society,
in general,
specifically the woman's role,
in society has changed.
medical reports tell us that women are developing diseases now that used to be predominately male diseases.
Heart disease was characteristic of men,
now there's almost equally predominant in women.
And stress disorders and things like that.
I think that symptom of our society,
it's a symptom that a general illness that needs to be healed.
I do not know what the healing process would be or what was causing the problem,
do know that in raising my boys, I really did meet a lot of pressures saying, you need to get them into music lessons,
you need to get them,
into sports
you need to get them into this,
they need to be busy
and they need to be active.
I fought all of those things,
I said if those boys want to be involved in that they will come to me
they will say Mom this is important to me,
I want to do it,
otherwise, I will guard their ability to have quiet time.
it's funny,
I refused to cram their lives full.
It's funny,
it's funny
I was rea ,
that's the way it is with a woman too.
I was really looking forward to summer, thinking we are going to have some time off.
it's been real busy.
today is really day of summer .
Because we have had so much going on the past few weeks.
you are right,
that's how society has changed,
the family has changed,
find ourselves doing things that,
we never did as kids.
I do not remember,
being involved in things like this.
it's just,
I do not know,
only time will tell whether it's better or worse,
than the way we grew up.
Of course.
just very different.
I just am very much a believer in quiet personal time.
If you do not have the time to talk to yourself, who are you going to talk to.
I guarded my children's rights for that
I think that that's one of the things that women are sacrificing that they should not do.
They are sacrificing their time with themselves.
There's nothing wrong with sitting and being bored,
if you thinking internally,
and you are,
working on your own self.
You are finding out who you are.
is not that difficult to do when you are working full time and have to come home and prepare a meal and,
I think,
get homework done,
where do you find the time.
in the first place it's not your homework,
it's your children's homework.
I was always very careful to be there only when they came to me and asked me for help,
I helped them with exactly what they asked for
that's all.
That's a part of the problem that women have always had
that is accepting responsibility for things that really are other people's responsibilities.
That's very true.
that way, we have not changed in,
hundreds of years, have we.
That's right.
That way husbands are crippled,
they are intellectual cripples,
and so are children.
They do not know how to think for themselves and be responsible,
for themselves.
I do not know why God made women brilliant .
Didn't he though .
I do not know
they tend to look at the mother as the one who solves all problems.
That's very true.
are all things to all people,
that's never changed.
very true.
was talking to a friend yesterday, who said she has a new policy in her home
when family comes to her and says, fix this,
I am having a problem with,
another member of the family,
she said I have taken a new stance,
I say, no,
I will not.
you work it out for yourself.
every single person in this family expects me to get,
they me into these arguments and,
That's right.
these conversations
supposed to be the one who is going to fix it all soothe everybody.
she said I am not doing it anymore.
I think that's one of the things that we have today that is very useful,
I think every woman ought to deal with it or, ought to at least be exposed to it,
that is mediation training.
we are not talking about strikes or things
we are talking about mediators who get involved in family crises,
parents and children, husbands and wives,
boss and employee. Those kinds of things. Interpersonal mediation,
the mediator is an unbiased bystander who,
We're to discuss a little bit about the process of putting someone in a nursing home and making the decision on a family basis
probably the first question would be whether you've ever had to go through that process.
not so much personally
my, husband has an aunt who has been like a second mother, always lived in the same town and took care of him and such.
They live down in College Station where,
his parents do too.
they put her in a home last year.
She appeared to have a couple of light strokes and started to, not be able to be in her apartment on her own.
they found place nearby that they put her in last year.
it was pretty much a physical decision?
although she is, in pretty good health and take any medication,
it's just she had had her own apartment and drove a car and everything up until that point.
Then she was starting to memory sometimes is kind of frightening when she's in the car.
My husband's family are reaching that point
so difficult.
Was she in favor of it
was she kind of opposed to it?
when it finally came down to it, she just got to the point after the,
it wasn't a very, strong stroke.
It was just kind of all of a sudden she wasn't herself anymore.
she got kind of fearful of being on her own.
She never really ate very well.
It was one thing.
She hardly
ever took care of herself
she didn't eat.
She ate very poor
I think she was, bad, nutrition on top of it.
she got to the point she didn't want to alone anymore.
So often I think though, elderly people don't realize that their diet is that bad.
I work with a lot of elderly people,
I'm a trust officer
often they think they're adequately caring for themselves when they're really not eating meals.
she was almost ridiculous.
she'd eat ice cream and cookies.
that's part of the aging process,
Didn't one,
That your taste buds goes back to the sweet taste.
It really is.
she didn't want to cook for herself anymore.
that's too much trouble.
That's too much trouble.
Didn't want to cook.
And the portions,
people don't want to try to figure out little bitty individual meals.
I do that right now,
I'm not near nursing home age.
Although they've got, Meals On Wheels,
Which I understand is a really good, way to handle that so that at least they eat.
as a family you all just visited nursing homes
probably in College Station there wasn't a whole lot of choice.
I don't think there was.
I know a little bit more from co worker.
Her mother in law had been in for quite some time and had different degrees of a place that she was in.
she was ambulatory
there was a lesser care.
then she got, hip broken
she wasn't as ambulatory
were almost, to the point of saying she can't be here anymore.
I remember from her checking around, she ended up staying at the Arkansas House I think out in Arlington, something like that.
the type of facilities whether it's a shared room or two separate rooms that share a, bathroom. All of them all seem to say that people there are going to steal their items .
That's a given.
They're always saying that somebody's going to,
some of them, I think unconsciously do it,
as a just, half seni ,
sometimes help there does it, I think.
. don't have too many facilities it seems for their personal items.
Very limited space waste
at least they all seem to have, people that monitor their, medication intake and dining facilities, go to the dining room
eat some good meals.
I know when my friend's mother in law first went in, very antisocial.
Maybe it takes a while for them to say, okay, I'll be with other people
I don't understand
that, don't want to be with anybody else.
mentioned, I was in the trust business
I've seen so many elderly people.
Usually there has to be some wealth involved, which is great, you're financially, you don't make the decisions so late that you're worried about money
places like Presbyterian Village and some of retirement places they have different levels of care seems to be so much better, as far as elderly people adapting.
They're able to move in while they're still independent
and still social
they do group things.
if health mental capacity deteriorates, they're able to take the next steps without so much change
I wish everybody could go that direction rather than just all of a sudden moving out of the home they've always been in.
It's really kind of difficult.
I have a,
my aunt's mother is, gotten ill recently
she lives in Pennsylvania,
they live in Alabama.
they're saying, hey, we need you to be closer
you have, women like that,
I don't to men,
it seems like the women live their husbands, but, very reluctantly,
they don't get out of the house,
they don't socialize
it's my home
I don't want to leave it.
it's the first step actually accepting that you are failing aging.
once you make that step you know that it's just going to be downhill from then on
I've seen people really fight it that desperately needed
to make the change.
in fact, that's probably what's going to happen with my husband's mother.
She's going to endanger herself before she'll willingly and probably will never willingly make the decision.
that scares me thought of forcing somebody to do something.
so lonely,
they can't get out and see anyone
it's hard someone like me to understand that
what do you have there?
It's a house,
it's walls
it's furniture
Not as independence.
there's nobody there.
Don't you want to be close to me? .
be with other people.
I just don't understand why they, so much want to just stay in
that building.
there's no family there,
they don't get to see their grandkids,
they don't get to see their children,
they just there in that house.
the quality of life really isn't there.
it's tough,
it really is.
That's from the child's standpoint.
The child is going, why don't you want to be close to me and your other family.
What does that house got attraction?
they fear being dependent
I know they're really proud of independence.
on somebody.
fear being a burden
family members.
My husband's mother will have major surgery
we'll find out about it in a casual conversation.
She'll let something slip
we'll say, wait a minute.
that's it,
she, just,
I didn't want to bother you.
She can't accept that we want to be the care givers.
when she got home, who took care of her?
in a temporary nursing home.
Until she was okay.
it's just,
it's frightening to us because we live pretty far from her.
She's down in Temple
we can't see her often enough to really know what's going on.
it's difficult,
it really is
we're all heading that way
husband and I, we have been thinking about his folks are in College Station
we've pretty much planned that we'll be here in the Dallas area
there's nothing to hold them there in College Station since they're retired.
we thought maybe we could get them to move a little closer here.
Yeah .
We're talking about capital punishment.
How do you feel about that (( Lenore )) ?
I am very much for capital punishment.
I am too, one hundred percent.
My Dad retired from the federal prison of bureaus.
I've been raised around prison
All your life.
prisons all my life.
I believe if you don't have a punishment befitting the crime, there's
There's no deterrent.
not any deterrent .
That's right.
There's just no deterrent.
That's right.
so many of those kind of people, have a better life in prison than they have on the street anyway
unless they really make it rough on them deterrent I don't think.
Especially not a federal prison.
I don't know what Oklahoma's laws are
Texas's I don't know are,
I don't know
no ones f ,
it's not the judges fault I don't think.
It's just the way the law is down here.
Man that, they can commit some pretty serious crimes and be set free within a year to two.
a mandate to,
it was over crowded
the federal came in and said, hey, you have either got to build more prisons or let people go.
that's what ours did, same thing.
finally our governor at the time is not in office now came in and said, okay, where we draw the line is no sex offenders will be let loose.
Under early bail,
or early,
(( get )) out.
we have,
the death penalty is not given often.
there have been w ,
It's not here either really.
maybe given, won't say sparingly,
I do believe it should be befitting the crime.
I do too
the way the courts are set up got so many chances for appeal,
needs to be expedited.
if they've been convicted and given an appeal and they're still convicted a crime that's deserving a lethal injection, let's do it and not waste so many years to do it.
Of course, entitled to a speedy trial.
That's right.
then also entitled to drag it through the courts
for years and years
and years on appeals.
somehow, it doesn't really balance out too much.
That's right.
Somehow it just doesn't,
it works and then again it takes too long for it to work.
it seems even though, that they (( got )) ,
the prisoner himself can come to the point that, hey, I'm tired.
I just want out.
I'm tired of fighting it.
Then the system just keeps on.
it equ ,
at that point really think there needs to be maybe a shorter appeal process.
I do too.
I think that needs to,
I don't see why it couldn't be shortened considerably.
part of that is the overcrowding of the court system.
Yea ,
that's true.
It is overcrowded because there's so much
that ha ,
robbing and killing
that's why it's filled the prisons up so much I think.
help them any at all
it doesn't.
of course, your court system when you get into the appeals,
I don't believe criminal is in a court by itself.
the whole judicial system is backed up with a lot of junk that shouldn't be in there.
that's true.
With all these lawsuits and people suing people over ridiculous things
We've gotten into a very litigious, type of life.
Boy, haven't that we though.
We really have.
anyway I'm glad to hear that you agree with me on the capital punishment.
I just,
very (( muchly )) for it.
Always have been,
always will be.
I just feel like their crime and punishment
you don't have the punishment, you double your crime.
is just personal feeling.
It's not going on facts.
I think
It could be supportive.
the facts would probably back it up
it's supported with facts though.
It could very easily be supported with facts.
tell me some about your camping experiences, Carolyn.
I have gone to girls camp a few times, as chaperon or a leader, whatever
I enjoy camping.
a tent,
we've gone, even with our family a few times out camping and have a camp stove,
I guess my biggest memory is when we froze to death .
We just didn't take enough blankets and
Wh ,
where do you go camping at around here?
we went camping at, Lake Bonham, which pretty close here.
we went fairly early in the season for this area, which is probably April
is when we went,
it got really cold at night,
of course we were close enough that we could go back and get some more blankets and things
in the morning,
activities do you do when you're camping?
we take little nature hikes
we take along games that we can play kids, and just that kind of stuff.
Usually try to have camp fire at night, and
roast the marshmallows and what all.
that sounds like fun.
grew up in South Dakota, up in the Black Hills
we used to go camping,
my dad would take us,
four of us kids,
take us,
we'd all go camping, my dad and my mom the kids,
it was always fun,
what I always remember is, my dad would let us pick our camp spot
he'd always tell us, okay, look for, a nice flat little area where we can pitch our tents,
it always had to be somewhere near river so we could go fishing,
hopefully we'd catch our supper,
we never did
always fun.
We'd always,
Mom was always prepared
she'd bring along, something, because tradition had it we would never catch anything,
we always had,
something along to eat,
then we'd marshmallows,
was always an enjoyable experience.
about nineteen eighty two I moved from Rapid City in the Black Hills,
I crossed the state Aberdeen,
there's no hills,
it's flat,
I was in high school,
and I, we'd go camping out by a river, of course, go fishing,
by then, of course, I was able to some things,
was always fun.
It was a different experience camping in the hills versus camping just by a river
in the hills would do like would take the nature hikes look for animals,
we always,
in the hills, you can see quite a few different animals,
Go ahead.
We used to live in Utah
of course, there's lots of mountains around there to camp in, streams and stuff.
a great place to go camping,
the hiking is just really great.
hike up those mountains
is just really fantastic.
or big rocks a person could hike around this area.
I'm not acquainted with any,
there's woods and things out in East Texas
Tyler area,
there's a Tyler State Park that's, really a nice camping area,
just a lot of trees,
it's not,
I don't know of any place in Texas that has, really big, what I call mountains .
The Rocky Mountains are so much,
bigger than anything that they've
they've got down here that,
it been pretty commercialized, I suppose?
too bad.
They have, screened in areas,
they're not really cabins, I wouldn't say,
I guess they could call them that, but more just a screened in, camping area
not bad.
keep pests out, I suppose.
yeah .
that sounds,
I don't know if I can rate camping,
it sure beats driving a thousand miles, find a mountain, I guess.
that's right.
take it you haven't done a whole lot of camping in this area.
we just moved down June.
I see.
over the culture shock still .
I'm still trying to find my way around.
can get on Central from anywhere, I'm happy.
really the ideal times to camp in this area are early spring, and, the fall.
It just gets so hot in the summer you can hardly,
a lot,
What type of things do you feel would invade your privacy every day?
I don't like it when, people listen to my phone conversations, like if they're outside my door while I'm talking in my room ,
or when people look through my things in my bedroom .
that's right.
That is really an invasion of privacy.
find it very annoying when I've worked all day to come in and my phone to ring constantly, the solicitors, and the carpet cleaning companies and,
Does that happen in your part of the country?
I come home
I am trying to get a few things done
I can't do anything but answer the telephone.
Right .
Some evenings are worse than others,
I wish I could put a stop to it,
I don't know what to do to stop it.
Even, we used to have a sign on our door that said no soliciting,
they would still come to our door
and knock and ,
They would think it didn't mean them, I guess.
I guess not,
Everybody but me .
Yeah .
live at home with your parents?
your privacy is invaded probably by other members of the family.
Yeah .
what can you do to stop that?
I don't know.
I am used to it now,
sometimes it sort of to me
there is not much I can really do.
Just have to live with it, I guess.
Try to remember to respect their privacy,
maybe they will respect yours
I don't know .
I always,
Do you have brothers?
I do,
they don't live at home.
I was ra ,
I had two younger brothers,
they nearly drove me crazy listening to telephone conversations
I used to do that though because I was the youngest,
I would pick up the phone and listen to theirs .
I would get in the bathroom and lock the door so maybe they couldn't hear me,
they would go get on the other extension
I could hear them,
I couldn't get them to hang up,
Yeah .
I stopped doing that a long time ago,
they still do it to me.
Even the office I, find that people walk up when you're on a conversation instead of walking off or just making themselves busy, they'll stand there and listen to what you say until you hang up.
s ,
this lady does that to me at work
when I'm taking an order or something,
she'll just sit there and listen like I'm doing something wrong,
she just started
she is nice
it gets annoying when they stand right over you watching everything you do.
I ,
Let's see, I can't think of anything else
No .
I'd really consider an invasion of privacy other than the phone solicitors.
About the only thing that really bothers me I don't have that many people coming to my door.
occasionally we'll have a person here or there, but as many as the phone calls,
I guess that's really thing that really bugs me the most.
I can't think, tha ,
our kids in our neighborhood used to bother me,
they've all gotten grown up now
we live in a neighborhood where there is not any little kids to bother me,
Oh .
since mine are all grown up,
What else would be an annoyance?
I guess traffic could be an annoyance.
Especially when you're in a hurry .
Do you have a lot of traffic in your area?
it can get busy,
Usually in the week I'm (( )) .
Some days it's real, real bad here,
you would like to, feel like it's an invasion of privacy because you can't even ride down the road without people all the way around you,
I've traveled quiet a bit,
I've been through Dallas, Texas.
It's pretty busy .
It really is,
and pretty noisy.
Yeah .
It really is.
I live right on a main thoroughfare,
when I first moved here I probably did consider that an invasion of privacy
first you'd hear a lot of noise, especially at night
when you go to bed.
every time fire truck or anything went down the road, I would wake up,
I guess I have gotten used to it because I don't even hear it anymore.
I suppose you do.
I just close it out, I guess, because remember waking up in several years at night when I'd hear a fire truck go by,
I think they would probably have to pull into my drive before it bothered me .
I am a real solid sleeper though
that probably wouldn't bother me.
I'd sleep right through it .
They would have to chop down the door and get you out, I guess. .
It takes a lot.
Let's see. What else is an invasion?
I had an old boyfriend who looked through my notes one time .
I was mad because those were mine (( )) ,
did you have has name all over them?
No .
It was letter from a girlfriend of mine.
I was upset because those were mine,
I thought he,
That was yours.
I thought he would respect me more than that,
to look through my things and not trust me,
that was upsetting.
I was mad about that and my privacy there.
I guess social change takes in big category,
I guess one aspect of it that I took in, consideration is more economical.
know that dollar goes probably more than anything greatly changed.
I agree.
I know, did a,
it was on a talk show,
they took, the parents and then son,
they compared income at different points in time father a little bit younger and more in his heyday
compared to the son's, that he was making now.
even though the son was probably more successful, higher up in management ladder
was actually making less money
by costs of living.
it's depending on where you live, though, too.
I know with me, ten years ago, I was comparing the,
I think was living better ten years ago than I am now, even though I'm making more money now,
my dollar went a lot farther.
That's true.
Ten years ago I was eleven .
I remember though, buying candy and stuff that was a lot less expensive than it is now.
And gas,
I used to hear stories from my Grandpa,
he could see a movie for a nickel and things like that.
know gas prices have definitely jumped, from,
I know I used to pay twenty five cents a gallon
now it's over a buck.
I don't know what it's, by you.
Around here Minnesota, Wisconsin area dropping,
I think it's about a dollar fifteen on an average.
I'm from Wisconsin,
yeah, (( )) .
unu ,
most of the people I talk to are Texas,
I spoke to a person from Texas, too.
This is only my second phone call
waiting for mine.
I suppose this will be one last one pretty soon,
they'll stop me
pretty much out to the things to say.
social changes.
I don't think this would have anything to do with it,
clothing and styles, lot of those changed.
I don't think consider,
like I say, it's a broad category,
it's just I'm not economical
even attitudes
clothing and stuff, I know.
Towards each other.
I know a lot of the things nowadays considered, feminine, many years ago,
I know, hard for me at first,
now I kind of like, a lot of the bright colors.
I used to be more, conservative and just your basic colors,
now do like some of these, brighter, fluorescent colors.
come and go all the time, though.
It's just ridiculous, fads in and out.
even, clothing from the sixties came back.
I see a lot of, girls wearing sixties clothes.
I guess best thing I like to see from the sixties and seventies the mini skirt, of course .
One of the nice things,
I don't think that there's anything as original,
all based on, one of the past styles,
they just, make their, circle and come back again.
if you hang onto your clothes long enough,
Yeah .
be back in style in a few years .
That's true,
maybe some day I probably won't be alive to see it,
prices might go down lot more.
I don't know though,
doesn't look good.
the only style I hope doesn't come back is bell bottoms.
I remember that,
I do .
I guess when I look at pictures of myself in the bell bottoms I say God.
I didn't really care for them either .
now I,
I was going to say, my, college is Northern State University in Aberdeen, South Dakota,
our head football coach, Dennis Muir , used to be an assistant coach at B Y U.
I thought that was kind of an coincidence.
you went to what college?
Northern State University in Aberdeen, South Dakota.
what did you graduate in?
I ju ,
in what major or what year?
major .
International business.
I'm going to B Y U,
I'm going into nursing
that sounds interesting.
How long of a program is that?
Forever .
Seems like, anyways.
It's about five years,
it's probably going to take me longer, because I didn't decide to major in that until, about a year and a half after I was already in school,
I read a study once,
it said that, like thirty four percent of, college students actually graduate in four years from a four year program.
That sounds.
five years.
Yeah .
get started
you change your mind,
you want to pick up a second major,
if you're management, thought, take that marketing,
it's just only was three more classes
get out in four years.
what is your advice to
My advice is
picking a college.
is, look the student to faculty ratio,
if you're going to go to a college where student faculty ratio is three and four hundred to one, I don't think you're going to have as meaningful of a college experience as if you're down to the thirty to forty to one.
Is that, what was yours more like?
Was there a,
it was about twenty six to one.
that's great.
Which is,
what I thought was nice is time to talk to professor,
they knew you.
You weren't just in their class,
go talk to them in their office almost at any time,
if you ran into them in the student union or whatever, you could sit down, talk to them about a problem.
They're always willing to help you out.
I, I put that against, my high school where we had, a biology class of three hundred and fifty students
Wow, in high school?
it was a biology lecture class
just wasn't the same.
You're sitting there,
you're taking notes
you got a computerized test scores, multiple choice, because there's no way they could correct a three hundred fifty point short answer test
a three hundred fifty person short answer test.
it just wasn't the same.
you'd pass the teacher in high school
even in high school you could say high to your teachers, unless you're in that biology class,
look at you like, do I know you?
or should I know you?
the classes here are pretty big,
it's hard to get individual help .
It's kind of, you're on your own .
Do you get, a lot of tutoring,
No .
Very little,
for example, in a chemistry class right now
there's tons of students in it,
there's one T A for the whole class.
he only has certain office hours,
there's only certain times you can talk to him,
you could get there
and have forty two people waiting to talk to him,
you still didn't get to talk to him anyway.
what would be your advice to a parent of a child thinking of attending college?
man. I think your advice is good.
let's see. My advice would be to pick a major before you get into college
That's excellent advice.
I took tons of classes that I didn't need to,
I don't know,
I just feel like going to take me a lot longer than,
not that's always bad,
I don't know,
it's frustrating, I guess.
it does get it.
you get to the point where never going to get done.
I was taking summer classes
(( )) let me get out of here.
that's good advice.
Even if you don't have your major decided on, have an idea what you think you might want,
you don't want management,
you think you want business,
I haven't, talked to anybody outside the Metroplex,
I didn't even think of saying Arlington, Texas.
This is a real first .
Are you at work?
I am.
I've been trying to get people at five thirty and six thirty in the evening
I thought, I'm not having any luck,
I'll try the middle of the afternoon.
happy we got through.
I am, too.
do you have any, opinion on the subject?
especially interested with happening in the Soviet Union,
move to,
the, Ukraine's vote secede and set itself up independently
is quite a remarkable, counts,
reported in the Texas papers?
hear a little of the news .
I have heard about that the last couple of days.
big is the Ukraine, the area,
do you know?
as an area, it's not,
Or a population or anything,
I'm really uninformed.
afraid I don't have the statistics in front of me.
tiny area.
if I was looking at a U S map, I would say it me a,
it's not as big as California proportionately.
more significant, in the sense of, it's a great agricultural region.
I see,
didn't really know that,
I know a lot of countries that they had overtaken, or wanted to be independent or several of them, right,
what about Astonia,
are they,
They're completely out now.
I thought they were.
Baltic, republics got out as quickly as they could.
Ukraine is especially significant because of the agriculture?
very important for the economics Soviet Union.
there were probably really fight to keep it in if they could.
except they can't fight .
they don't,
It's done democratically,
Bush has already given his opinion on it, right?
Didn't I read that?
not matter,
I don't know, anymore.
I, fear for the Russians from what I read,
I wonder how they're going to get through the winter.
Food wise or any wise,
sounds to me like they'll start rioting soon, not that that would do any good,
I guess people do that when they're desperate.
true, hasn't happened here for a while,
that's true,
since the Depression,
I guess when the veterans went to Washington
and the war riots, of course.
Let's just hope we don't get to that point .
Things are not so good in Texas job wise.
heard they're, I hear you have some problems.
we do.
We have lots and lots of, layoffs here. Lot of companies folding, lot of layoffs
it's pretty scary.
blame government in Washington for this?
I don't understand economics that well.
I don't know,
know that we have a terrible situation with foreign trade and that other countries put a lot of restrictions that we don't
I assume that that has some effect.
a great effect.
during the way, Reagan Bush years, the rich got richer,
the poor got poorer,
the statistics prove that
then, you think it's Reagan and Bush have done this
is it just coincidence it was during this period?
I really don't know.
I think contributed to it.
Maybe they should pay more attention
Of course, if somebody China can make something for ten cents and we have to make it for ten dollars because we have unions, I don't know what's going to happen then.
the Chinese use slave labor, too.
one of the ways they get away with it.
And child labor.
I don't know.
What do you think has caused our horrible situation?
I don't think there's any one
One thing.
simple answer to the whole thing.
very complicated.
they say, too, that having a democratic congress and republican President is not good.
I've read that is a theory.
which one are we going to throw out?
I hate to say it,
tending to go straight back into my original democratic party.
used to be a democratic state, didn't it?
I know,
it used to,
you don't want too many democrats anymore
for a while I kind of deserted the party,
now it's looking better to me.
I like your governor.
do you?
I'm glad to hear that.
She's an impressive woman.
I think so, too.
just, admire her a lot.
she does well.
she's, probably more popular out of the state than she is here, although she did manage to win.
Right .
look who she was running against, .
anybody could beat Claytie in Texas.
He shot himself in the foot so many times .
How did you get on this T I thing?
know some of the people.
go ahead.
we're going to compare notes.
Don't do it .
often desire to exercise, often believe I should and rarely do.
I tell you, firmly believe in exercising.
I think it's a,
I do it every day on a regular basis.
what sort regiment do you have?
I just got back from biking twelve and a half miles,
this time of year, you can't get much biking in.
every morning I use this President's, council of physical fitness
worth doing,
you can do it anywhere.
travel quite a bit in my
in my business,
you can do it, wherever you're at
if you do it,
do it every morning
breakfast before I take a shower and get, dressed going
to go to work.
what I do,
I've done this for, fifteen years,
you don't start at this kind of regiment,
what I'm telling you isn't something you go out and do
you'll hurt yourself .
it takes me about fifteen minutes to do this now because I do it all the time,
do twenty five, where you have your arms above your head and
and your body twisters touch toe
I do, ten, right and left, trunk twisters.
I do, about sixty, bicycle, things.
I do, twenty, leg lifters on each side.
when you're p ,
laying on the floor.
I do fifty push ups and do a hundred sit ups
then I do about,
My goodness,
you do all of this in fifteen minutes?
if you did football, the old grass drills where you're on your stomach and you
prone type things, where you're kind of rocking on your stomach type thing,
that takes maybe about thirteen minutes,
in the morning.
keeps you doing that.
sometimes start much more modest efforts,
I give up,
I just find them boring.
Hard to
find the time for it on a given day
Years ago I used to, referee football
to stay in condition, I did that, just as a normal
I tell you just by doing it,
example, this summer was about fifteen pounds heavier than I wanted to be
I do three hundred sit ups a day now, but not morning,
I do a hundred then
I do about a hundred before supper and about a hundred before I go to bed.
I lost fifteen pounds just by doing that because you tighten your stomach muscles
you can eat anything you want, drink anything you want,
you don't,
within reason, you can lose weight or maintain your weight
and your physical being
I just,
you're ready to go at a,
I think it's really important.
whenever I do it, I feel good.
good that I have done, good because right and good because it has good effects.
it's this maintaining regular habit that I just can't
that's why
seem to do.
Chuck, I think, if you did it on a daily basis
and you didn't need elaborate things, where you can make excuses like,
like biking
during the summer, I'll do, at least seventy five miles a week
and when I really was doing it maybe a hundred and fifty,
you can't,
there's excuses, weather
you don't have time or something like that.
if you do some basic exercises and you say every morning, just like brushing your teeth you're going to spend fifteen minutes or a half hour.
And you get up a half hour earlier
once you start getting into that, just feel good
you look a whole lot better.
does your wife participate in any of this
Unfortunately not,
there's no way I can get her to.
something you either just really want to do it
you can't talk anyone into it.
If you don't like to exercise, it isn't going to happen.
sure wish she would.
She's, unfortunately overweight,
she's a wonderful woman
no sense getting in arguments with anybody, about it.
I keep saying if somebody else would do it with me, considerably.
you seemed to have that problem without external
No problem at all.
if you get one of these mats.
go to a store, they normally have these exercise, things, these A B C s of physical fitness on them.
One of my kids got me one of those for Christmas one year
what, what's on, what's this mat,
it's just an exercise mat that rolls up
you can put it up, just in the corner.
Is it like the sort of thing you take on a camping trip
you can do that.
and sleep on it.
kind of like
it doesn't,
half inch of foam or something.
it's a foam thing,
just about six feet long, rolls up
I don't take it on trips with me.
I don't mind,
if I do sit ups, I'll throw towel down or something.
you don't have the abrasive,
what do you think about, the self insurance business?
I watched something on T V a couple of months ago by, Koop.
he talked about Canada's system
it appears to work fine for the normal colds and things like that,
the expensive stuff, heart, operations and things, they have a managed scarcity.
they said that in Canada, there were as many heart, trauma centers as there is in San Francisco.
in one city America, there's as many, hospitals that are equipped to do operations as in the entire area of Canada,
that's kind of spooky.
understand what you're saying,
there's probably some truth to that.
I think that, generally I don't welcome added government responsibilities.
However, when can't police their own profession, it eventually leads to that,
I think the costs and way the medical profession has, every year
I, being in my own business,
in the last six years, every year there's been at least minimum twenty five percent increase in health insurance costs,
I think eventually the number of people that can afford health insurance, it is now getting squeezed and squeezed tighter.
I think they're asking for it.
think the medical profession is pushing until there's no option but the government take it over
Do you think that it's just, medical guys?
What about, how expensive new equipment and technology is.
That's where I think most of the cost is coming.
think a lot of it is,
don't disagree totally with that,
my wife this last summer, when we were on vacation tore up her knee,
it was in her knee,
as it turned out,
she came back that,
we were out at Cape Hatteras when this happened
she got home,
the leading orthopedic man, who has handled football people for years and is as good as they come,
he knows knee problems okay,
if anyone does, this guy knows it.
she goes in,
he says, I think this is what it is,
you better go to the hospital and have one of these M R I things.
A thousand dollars for this, magnetic, resonance imaging type thing.
my wife said, do I need that?
he says, help me diagnose this.
suggest you go have this thing.
Insurance won't pick this up unless you're in the hospital.
thousand, dollars for thirty five minutes.
doctors routinely send people in for anything.
for years they didn't have this
they solved these problems,
(( Yeah )) .
I said to her, look, if you feel you got to go, go,
think a thousand dollars,
these guys,
I don't know what it is,
(( huh )) .
no doubt they get kickbacks to fill these machines up night and day.
even if they cost a hundred, two hundred, five hundred thousand dollars, at, roughly a thousand dollars every half hour, that's ridiculous.
don't care what anyone says.
the costs are not,
it's a picture.
It shouldn't cost more than thirty five bucks for something like that, reasonableness.
they aren't reasonable.
Fifty, a hundred dollars.
They don't have to pay them back in three months time.
I'll have to agree,
(( )) .
with you there,
there's another problem,
that's how litigious our society is.
If the doctor makes a mistake, he can be sure that he's going to be hauled into court.
I think that's problem,
that's part of our legalese problem.
that, the government eventually will address too just, because it's out of control.
agree with you.
I was on a jury
didn't make the jury,
there was a,
deal where a doctor was going to be sued for malpractice on the death on an infant.
it was three days after it was born,
he was the one that delivered it.
they got four attorneys,
one guy out of Houston, he introduced himself as snake so and so,
he says, anyone have trouble awarding five million dollars,
I says, yeah,
I got problems with .
five million bucks isn't going to bring this kid back,
as sorrowful as it is. if the doctor is wrong, he should be pulled from his license,
five million dollars and away he goes because insurance pays for it,
doesn't make logical sense to me,
it doesn't.
You think about AIDS research?
AIDS is a nasty, terrible disease,
you die from it.
I think that, they need to look into it
it's kind of like cancer.
I don't,
how many years have we tried to find a cure for cancer.
I think it'll probably be as difficult.
how about yourself.
I'm certainly in favor of AIDS research,
I think probably the government could spend a bit more money on it than it does.
I think that
besides the fact that it's a deadly disease, that it's a contagious disease, so that it's,
although it is not killing that many people now, it still has the opportunity to get out of control and become a huge problem.
they say a million people are infected
with the H I V virus,
I think,
That's in the world, or in America?
in the country, America.
they have millions.
Whose figure is that?
I don't know.
I've just heard it on the radio.
Sometimes you hear things could be true or couldn't be.
do you feel like this is,
guess they're spending a billion or so a year on this AIDS research.
Do you think they should spend more?
think they should, although not incredible amount more than what they're doing,
I don't necessarily think that they should, fund AIDS research and, in the process, neglect cancer research or whatever.
I think that it would be a good thing for the government to increase funding for medical research in general.
What do you think, Doug, of Mister Johnson?
am sorry that he has the virus.
don't know,
it's very strange that the media hasn't, questioned him more strongly gay sex or intravenous drugs or anything like that, as they probably would for a lot of other people.
Do you think he's the hero that he's being called by media?
really, though I think he's probably doing the right thing for a man in his position,
I don't think it's anything exceptional that he's doing.
It's what many people have done already, who were just less famous.
I took advantage of the opportunity when, he came out.
I talked to my kids about it,
it's something that I done before.
that's good.
I'm glad that Mister Johnson's changed his tune on, safe sex to abstinence,
I was glad he did that, for young kids, because a lot of kids would have ended up dying because of what he was promoting.
let's see.
What are some of the other questions.
you don't,
let's see.
I don't have any friends that have the disease.
I guess you not.
I do.
My cousin, does, for instance.
Is it pretty
it is.
He's actually,
he had AIDS related complex for a while,
he is now in full blown AIDS, really not doing very well, and has a brain tumor or
it sounds awful.
a very nasty thing.
Is it just that the immune system ceases to function properly
basically it, that, the immune system can at first slow down,
the white blood cell count goes down,
AIDS Related Complex,
then when things get completely out of control and it basically hits bottom, that's AIDS
in that case, people are prone to getting any kind of, weird cancer that only animals got before
that sort of thing,
There we are.
All right.
tell me about the car that you've got.
I have a Honda, hatchback, nineteen eighty four.
I had a hatchback, a nineteen seventy eight version before this one.
I'll be honest with you.
I have never found any automobile that has been more conscientiously constructed put together
does its job.
All I have to do on my Honda is change the oil and the filter every thirty five hundred miles,
did have to put new front tires on at fifty thousand miles,
that car just purrs like the day it was built.
I get forty two miles per gallon on the highway and to thirty driving around in town.
It's a five speed straight stick machine.
I can carry more in trunk area in my little Honda than I can in the big cars,
I have a large, Pontiac,
I have a sixty nine Cougar, which old,
it's in beautiful shape.
I can carry as much in my Honda or more than I can those other bigger cars.
that's very interesting.
exactly the same experience with the one that I've got.
It's a,
surprisingly it's also an eighty four
L X?
I'm still here.
It was an L X?
it's an L X,
it's not a hatchback,
yours is a four door.
Four door,
and very, very comfortable car.
Big roomy trunk
very happy with it,
I must admit it's,
my only consideration buying another car just to tool around town in and make, brief trips and things like that,
I would seriously consider buying one.
I think they're extraordinarily reliable cars.
they are.
real concern with, why I'm not sure I want to buy a Honda, is because I have to make a kind of steady, trip down the road about once a month, because I'm divorced
I have a daughter that lives down in North Carolina
I drive,
down Interstate Ninety five,
it's just an absolutely wild highway.
Ninety five is wild in any car.
There's no doubt about that
I run over to Crystal City, used to,
I'm retiring the end of this month
I'm very much aware of the crazy driving that goes on over there.
got it,
having precious cargo in the car with me , as you can well imagine, it's very hard for me to imagine a Honda's going to be as safe a car the one that I've got my eye on, which is a Volvo.
fact, quite frankly I've owned a Volvo in the past,
they're expensive cars to keep up when they need service,
I've found that I've had a lot of luck with them.
course I'm a mechanically inclined kind of person,
I always wind up getting under the hood and finding out all the things that, need to be taken care of, and so forth.
I guess that's one thing recommends the Honda to a lot of people, there's just very little that you have to do under the hood,
it sits there and purrs,
got to do is the main major thing of changing that oil and that filter.
I get six hundred miles on a tank of gas.
I know.
It's really amazing.
It's, ,
Beautiful, beautiful machine.
incredible .
I've been looking at the prices of these cars so forth,
I think that very surprising some of these very expensive Volvos can be gotten for a lot less money than you would think if you're
Is that right,
willing to buy ones that are about,
the vintage of the cars that you and I currently own
a brand new Volvo costs, what, thirty thousand dollars?
certainly some of the top end ones.
You can still even low end wagons, for less than twenty thousand dollars
we get,
in the Washington area, of course, being as affluent as it is, there are lots and lots of Volvo dealerships down here
there're lots and lots of them available in the paper at week,
I sort of, scan the paper and look at them, and so forth
C and
so, the other thing is that never really been too terribly much of a new car person.
I think I've bought one or two new cars in my life,
I've tended buy cars that are, two or three, and sometimes even four and five or six years old.
This Honda that I have I bought used,
in fact, it had an extraordinarily low amount of mileage on it.
I've just rolled seventy thousand miles,
eighty four just has seventy seven on it
I've made many trips to Washington and down to Virginia Beach, Virginia, where my mother lives, and things like that,
I drive it,
about the weather .
very appropriate, I guess.
you ready for this?
Okay, John,
just a moment.
guess what,
we get to talk about the weather .
The weather kind of unusual.
I haven't expected it to be colder until,
like we've gotten the last couple of days.
I don't know.
I fly for a living,
the weather's been terribly unusual every where I've been.
you do
you probably go everywhere
and have all sorts of weather.
I imagine it's kind of an experience also trying to land and take off in the weather.
it was around here last night,
I'll tell you that .
I've heard on the news that we, will be setting a record here in the State of Texas for the, large amounts of rain and moisture we've had this year, that it's going to break all kind of records that were set back since nineteen thirty two.
No kidding.
yeah .
If it keeps on raining like this,
I understand it's supposed to rain until Saturday night.
Saturday or Sunday they were saying,
I know the systems have been real strong out.
I went through, Phoenix Wednesday morning
(( )) approaches to low minimum (( )) times
Phoenix never gets that kind of weather
are you an airline pilot?
I am
for Southwest,
For Southwest,
that's a pilot, also, with American.
is that right?
I imagine
I wouldn't call it danger.
bad stuff to fly around in.
This is much better than dealing with the thunderstorms in the Springtime.
I guess so,
air systems are reasonably calm.
We don't have, the turbulence
have a, little bit of chop,
it's not like it is in the spring time.
we moved down here from another location,
it's spectacular thunderstorms and rain storms you get in the spring time, the torrents of rain.
Spectacular is the right word for them.
Pardon me?
Spectacular is a good word for them .
I've never seen a thunder show like I've seen down here before in Texas.
It's amazing.
Lights up the whole sky and even
seen it where there's not a cloud in the sky,
it's a cloudless night,
the rain isn't falling,
you can going horizontally across the sky
and back and forth, and what a light show.
cloud to cloud it can be sensational here.
that's true.
Where are you from originally?
I'm from, northern Utah,
that's a very arid climate, from, Salt Lake City area
there's always a lot of snow.
In fact, where I grew up we were about an hour's drive from seven to, twelve different major ski resorts,
there was an awful lot of snow,
because it was an arid climate, the snow was always a crisp, powder, light snow
which made it fantastic for skiing sleigh riding and everything else.
we had a great time.
Were you the Park Cities area.
Beautiful area.
in Snowbird and Solitude and
and Brighton and
all those areas.
I imagine, have you skied before?
we've skied,
I have not skied that area.
I've driven through it several times.
California a bunch when we lived out there,
of course, up in Minnesota,
we do some skiing there
(( )) .
lot of cross country skiing there.
do you think weather is typical for this time of the year?
not really,
Minnesota's gotten just hammered with snow,
we've gotten a fair amount of rain for this time of year already
I think
I've been surprised that we haven't seen more of the temperatures that we've got today, that moved in last night.
There was a time, though, in the, middle part of November that got really cool, really, really
unseasonably cool
it did.
it warmed right back up,
I thought, great
a fun th ,
my wife was just listening here
she said, yeah,
it froze in fact.
real cold.
that was very unseasonable for us down here.
I've really enjoyed the weather down here, too,
two years ago we were the day after Christmas able to go out in shorts and play tennis in the nice sunny
it's not as severe, I should say
as the weather that I've experienced up in northern Utah.
real true.
Same with us from Minnesota.
in fact, played golf New Year's Day one year.
Down here?
Not in Minnesota .
I have a brother in law that lives in Minnesota
they say, boy, six months out of the year it's bitter cold, and
it is,
it is.
and the wind and the blowing snow and everything.
they've had,
usually in Minnesota they get their snow in January
and February,
they're up over sixty five or sixty ,
I guess tonight's subject is, woodworking.
Do you,
kind of woodworking do you do?
of, mainly the woodworking I've done lately is, made for example a little nativity scene.
not whole figurines and so forth, but mainly the stable, put some shelves in some odd stuff around the house
enjoy doing a little bit of woodworking
I do it out of hobby more than, something I have to do.
How about yourself?
I like to think of it as a hobby, but guess also, partly out of necessity. Just repairing things around the house.
a few years ago, some book shelves
I kind of drew up some simple plans to make some book shelves
it actually worked pretty well
over the years refined those plans.
I got myself a router
very good at making book shelves.
also a way of relieving stress.
My wife kind of laughs,
at me that anytime I get stressed out I just go out in the garage and we've got more book shelves.
I'll have to come and see them .
That sounds like a good idea.
it is out of necessity
lot of the things we can't be able to afford,
also sometimes think that, I enjoy doing that
I like to get out to work with my hands
sounds like you got some real nice tools, too.
Do you think you would be able to do some more if you had more tools and different tools?
little by little, started out with just basic hand tools and kind of added on to things.
gotten good belt sander
the router, helps a lot because you can make better joints with a router.
The latest project that I've been working on this has been kind of sitting here for a few months is cabinet put a T V in.
a entertainment type center?
it, works well because you can design it suit whatever equipment you have
designed a space just the right size for the T V and then V C R and shelves on the side for my stereo equipment.
that's worked pretty well.
the router you can make nice,
I guess dado joints is what it's called.
aware of that.
also with a router, you can, make ornamental facings, too better than a just straight wood edge.
That's right.
That's right.
And, casings and so forth real nice,
That's good.
what I need next is a good table saw.
Yeah .
debate whether it's better to get straight table saw or to get one of these, rotary arm saws.
Radial arm saw is, I guess, what they're called.
it me the radial arm saw better,
takes up less room.
set the wood down
you move the saw.
Whereas if you're ripping wood, you're probably better off with table saw.
with a radial arm saw, if you do have big piece of wood that you need to rip, like you say, or cut, you wouldn't be able to do that.
a table saw does take and is a pretty big investment.
partly my problem now.
I don't have room for this.
we lived before up north,
basements common
I used to put all the stuff in my basement,
not so here in Texas.
they don't have basements.
I'm from up north also
there's no down here
it's kind of, hard to get, shop space unless you have a dedicated shop or a dedicated room
for that.
lot of the equipment, too, that used in the past, used in school
I would,
I don't know,
kind of like look at equipment like a lathe or like you say, a table saw and some of those things that would make, some pretty nice, pieces of, wood, different things for tables, chairs, for, decks and so forth
I don't know,
just enjoy woodworking
I think main thing is, like you say, good out.
It's an opportunity to get out and relieve some of the pressure that you feel day to day
it's a great reliever.
Have you ever used a lathe?
I've made, different things, for chairs
I've made, bowls,
Did you hear our topic?
It's in regards to discussing homes.
yes, sir,
you settled in a place?
I'm settled in a place.
I've been in it for seventy eight
it's in Richardson, Texas, which is north Texas
(( Right )) .
north Dallas.
we've lived in two houses in Richardson.
We moved here in seventy four and, changed locations in seventy eight.
How about yourself?
we, left here in seventy six.
we were here for a few years,
then we, have come back just this summer.
Right now we're looking for housing, somewhere down in the Duncanville and Cedar Hill area.
Are you familiar with that?
it's a nice area.
it is.
The kids are in school here in Duncanville.
We're in a temporary place right now
they've enjoyed the school,
we're kind of trying to stay here
Are you finding it tough trying to find what you want
the problem we got is that we've got five children
we really want four or five bedroom house
everybody says, how many houses are on the market and
all that kind of thing
look at the paper,
we realtor
you can cut, the listings, in about a third when you go from three to four bedrooms
or five.
Are you looking
or you settled,
we're settled
I'm probably older than you,
I'm fifty two,
youngest is getting married this year
graduating college,
I can board up their rooms,
and look forward to retirement maybe.
That empty nest syndrome is going to set in, I guess.
we're looking forward to retiring in about three years and
maybe relocating to Florida or somewhere.
to our families.
from Florida originally?
from West Virginia
parents are from the New York, New Jersey area
Yeah .
everyone relocated down that area.
Seems like a nice place to go .
We've got five
the oldest is, ninth grade
the youngest is second grade
I think they're going to be, with us forever.
I don't know if that's true,
it's sure, we're not anywhere near looking to, cut down in size.
trying to
You need very minimum four and probably five.
In fact, six would be real good.
My wife and I can share a bedroom .
It's tough
to find a five and six house, isn't it?
I don't think it's possible unless you, multimillionaire, something like that.
I know.
Seems like you get in that category, you're in the three hundred thousand dollar homes or whatever
that's an awful lot, .
it is,
(( )) .
we're having,
if we find something for, I'd say less than a hundred and twenty thousand, we'll be doing all right,
I think the thing's out there,
it's just a matter of,
(( ))
of looking,
finding the right place,
Lot of people a four bedroom house and convert maybe the garage or something something.
I had a young lady used to work for me at my office from the high school
they converted the dining room and,
did this and that,
they always seemed to get along fine,
I think once we get into a place, it will be just fine,
a little stressful, just looking all the time and that sort of thing.
I know
nothing harder than that.
I always just sort of my wife that chore,
then I would let her narrow it down to three or four,
then I'd go look because women seem to like to look a lot more than men do.
Maybe that's the case.
At least she's got more opinions,
more constraints
more things that she thinks about. openness, the size of the kitchen and all this kind of stuff that I would
Why, certainly.
probably gloss over and,
maybe even ignore,
understand that.
What kind of business are you in?
I'm in the, sporting goods business.
I'm a manufacturer's rep.
I represent fourteen different hunting and shooting type companies.
are you with?
we're with an organization called, Wycliff Bible Translators.
It's missions organization and, doing, translation, linguistics, that sort of thing.
it's got an office down here near Duncanville
we just moved down to be on staff down here
was the,
you lived in the Denver area before?
How did that compare with this area as far as prices?
we were, really surprised to find that they're higher here.
No kidding.
When we moved from Louisiana to Denver, it was astounding, to find that prices were, I guess almost two or three times as high as we'd expected.
to come down here, we thought things would be lower,
they're not.
I guess, really, prices for housing are just,
should begin. *
All right.
I can begin this,
basically I work for Honeywell in Minneapolis
benefit program we have here is really quite good.
pretty pleased with it.
They cover, just about everything, vision, dental, medical
you name it,
for me this is the first job I've had where they've covered that much,
I'm pretty satisfied myself.
what's your situation?
I work for the University of New Hampshire,
our benefits package quite as good in some ways.
overall I'm satisfied with it.
We don't have the vision care,
we do have the health care
Are you a professor there?
the professional administrative and technical staff,
run the telephone switch the University of New Hampshire.
I see,
probably the main thing I like about the benefits is very generous vacation time and sick time.
no doubt .
We get fifteen days a year sick time,
time off.
that's good.
that's one of the things I guess I would change about Honeywell, is,
I used to work with the Army Research Institute,
being government organization you got quite a few holidays off.
here you don't get that.
You maybe get two or three a year.
it's really,
have some vacation time or sick leave or whatever, you kind of have to finagle your way around to get that time.
kind of a drawback I think.
I don't know.
What do you consider most important, you think, in terms the different benefits?
I think, health care, of course, is an important, and has to be the single most important benefit
the rates that we keep paying seem to keep increasing,
a little disturbed about that,
I think that's a national trend,
the solution is to it.
It's bigger than just the benefits part.
I don't know if you saw on TWENTY TWENTY the other night,
basically reviewed Oregon's plan
The Oregon Plan
toward, nationalizing health care and that kind of thing.
It's kind of an interesting plan.
It's kind of cold though.
They've essentially made up a list of, all the different, medical maladies that you can have
and then basically made a cutoff,
about six hundred and eighty seven and below will not be covered subsidized health care,
the ones above would.
it's kind of like drawing this line
if you have it great,
if you don't, you're kind of out of luck
it was kind of an interesting show.
I think you're right,
I think health care is probably
the pressing one,
I'll tell you, don't mind having dental,
sometimes dental costs can be, just about as expensive, if not more,
I know historically a lot of companies I think carried dental as a rider along with the medical
I'm not sure widely followed any more.
I'm not sure,
does, University of New Hampshire handle it?
we have two different plans that we can subscribe to under dental, depending,
the cost between them little.
I think it costs me something like five dollars month for the dental plan.
it pays, a substantial amount.
the examinations checkups are free
covers the bulk of the dental expenses.
the same for both, professors also staff and administration,
is that generally across the board, do you think
it is.
The benefits plan is different staff, which are considered to be, clerical personnel, accountants, things like that
as opposed to what they call the P A T staff, which I belong to
the main,
I think health and all that and the dental is the same for everybody, and the retirement plan.
the main difference is in way sick time is accrued and vacation time is accrued.
for the operating staff it's
That determines how much, vacation time they get.
I'm kind of interested because like to take when I finally get my degree
teach in a university.
I'm a doctoral student in Florida right now
That's one of the things I'd like to think about is in what kind of benefits cover and things like that.
College programs belong to this T I A A, C R E F retirement fund.
is that right?
in the case of the University of New Hampshire,
All right.
What's your view.
What's your view?
I have a hard time thinking that they can control guns.
Yeah .
that's true.
even if they give it a shot, it's still going to be black market all over the place,
That's right.
That's right.
I don't know.
Coming from Texas you're probably,
I don't know
I shouldn't make stereo types,
gun control is probably frowned on quite a bit down there I would think.
It is,
I just live down here now.
you're just live down there?
I've lived down here a couple years.
I'm originally from Colorado,
there's a lot of hunters here.
I know how you feel.
in Nebraska
always use to go out and hunt all the time,
man, I would ever go for a total ban on all weapons.
That's just,
I don't know.
it's ridiculous.
It doesn't sit with me very well.
I don't know, anymore
I keep a thirty eight in my truck,
I just about all,
I live in Minneapolis
I live in Florida,
I am staying in Minneapolis for a year
both areas are pretty crime ridden right now
it's just, you never know who is out there.
it's just for self protection purposes
of course there's the hunting issue,
that's good.
What do you do, Jeff?
in, program control for a company up here.
All right.
We do schedules, for
programs, schedule programs.
What do you do?
I'm, researcher of Honeywell up here.
You guys , do you get much of a chance to hunt or anything
I haven't had a chance to do any hunting since I've been down here.
I don't own a shotgun,
I'd like to go bird hunting.
that's something I miss quite a bit.
when I was in Colorado we went deer and elk hunting
quite a bit
All right.
my brother was, a guide for bear and elk hunts out in Idaho for a while and, really enjoyed it quite a bit,
I don't know.
I guess that what the scale now is, it's zero a complete,
One for a total ban
That's right.
I guess I am about eight or nine .
agree with you there .
no doubt about it
if they can anyway get it, keep criminals from having guns which they can't
if there's
for it.
if there's a way, to limited it to people
passed a couple of, laws in some states in terms of a waiting period
where you go to buy a hand gun
they actually,
I know it's this way in Florida.
They have a waiting period where you buy one
that's a week
they check you out and make sure you don't have a record and things like that.
I think that's a pretty good idea.
I don't know,
that's not a bad idea,
then again you can always get around that.
You could go through the black market like you say.
you always be able to get around
it's one of things
I don't know.
some forms of guns should probably be controlled just like I'm not real sure why anybody would need a full automatic weapon.
I don't either .
I'm just not,
I think those have been pretty much, banned altogether anyway.
fully auto,
even a semiautomatic, I guess that's,
It kind of takes the sport out of hunting .
it's like what can you do with that, that you can't do in a self protection situation with like a seven or a twenty shot twelve.
you might do the same thing.
it's like, I don't know. It does.
It takes the sport out of it.
For me I would much rather have a bow anytime .
like bows.
I have done some bow hunting
get into it
I think it's more of a challenge,
I don't know.
I guess it keeps the shell makers in business.
I don't know.
that's about where I stand .
Me too.
I am about the same way.
eaten yet or whatever.
Is it seven o'clock there?
it's about seven fifteen.
You guys central?
How is the weather up there?
it's not too good.
It's kind of rainy
Is it?
Around this time of year you expect it up here to get down to about, I don't know, ten or twenty degrees
it's been up around forty.
whining about the rain and stuff, but not too bad about the temperature.
Ice is starting to melt and stuff like that
I am just up here for the year
it's kind of shocking.
Wendy, I guess we get to talk about budgets tonight or lack of budgets that may be the case
and any kind of long term financial planning or anything like that,
let me ask you the question,
do you have or a long term budget that you stick to?
Right now I'm in college
I'm on work study
my budget comes from my dad's help.
He helps me out a lot
I get paid monthly,
that's kind of hard to have a budget.
My mother, doesn't get paid much money,
her budget is, just, planning for I R A's.
I see,
I see.
I'm kind of in a different situation,
I went through that, too, when I was in school,
working to get through college trying to make it through that,
I'm married and have, couple of children
we have to, pretty much stick to a budget.
I'm on a salary
I don't get any overtime or anything like that
We have a fixed income
we have to make sure that, every dollar we have spent accordingly
what we try and do stick to our monthly budget is
we pretty much have, the house payment,
we have the insurance premiums, utilities and so forth
we do sit down at the beginning of every month or the end of every month and write down how much we know we're going to spend and set that money aside,
we also try and set aside money for savings, set aside money for the coll , the kids' education
college education, the future and, set aside money for bonds
we also set aside an emergency fund
That sounds good.
been married for about ten years
we find out that, no matter what kind of budget you stick on, there's always going to be an unexpected car repair or something
happen with the house, that you have to have money for and, not enough to go and to take a loan out, but, you have to have money for.
then we have,
whatever's left over is discretionary income,
that we use for the rest of the month,
it's worked out very well.
helped us, so that we haven't been, too long on the month and too short on the money and
that's good.
try and stick with that
nice thing about it, wife excellent in that we both work together,
we both have a budget,
we stick to it
there's no surprises in that .
With two kids, that could be hard.
I have four kids.
I said a couple of kids,
guess I should have specified,
I have four
my goodness.
four little boys,
Four boys.
You bet.
my goodne ,
You bet.
It's just me and my sister.
All right .
my parents divorced three years ago
my sister had gotten through college,
I was still in high school,
my mother paid for a lot of my sister's college while my parents were together
before the divorce she had saved for my college.
when we had the divorce, she just didn't get much money out of it and had to spend it all on getting another house.
now my dad's paying for all of my college of .
And financial aid
and scholarships.
I'm a music major,
I have auditions coming up.
what year are you in in college?
I'm a sophomore.
You're a sophomore,
you have a few more years.
probably have about, and a half years left.
good for you.
Good for you.
I imagine it, is a little difficult to stick with a budget during that, during school and so it forth.
it sure is.
know how much my dad is going to give me every two weeks
Yes .
don't spend over that .
sometimes that's a little hard with books and music sheet music and stuff you've got to work on, too.
always music
Lab fees and all,
books to buy.
you're not a starving artist, yet, are you?
I don't plan on being a starving artist .
That's why I'm in college .
enough of those in the world,
Right .
I'm glad to hear that, Wendy.
W ,
That's usually because they're not real educated.
They can't afford to have a really good job.
not very well educated?
The starving ones.
There's enough out there that educated enough, then you can make money.
That's true,
that's true.
I found that out.
that's why I'm planning preparing for the, education of my children, also
try and set that money aside.
What did you major in?
I majored in business administration.
you know plenty about planning
once again,
Not very good
it's not been a good day .
I went,
I turned mine in about twelve hours early at noon.
I don't know.
I finished mine up about eleven and left it here with Carolyn
I hope she's turned it in.
Are you eating?
I ju ,
go ahead,
I'll stop eating.
I just barely got
No it's,
home from the university.
Say what?
I just barely got home from the university.
Tell you what we can do is, I can punch the, one,
the, voice comes on, we can talk all night if we want .
go ahead,
fire away.
. I love the irony of, talking about this subject on April the,
fifteenth .
I'm afraid probably in the minority.
actually don't think that we, pay too much in this country.
I agree with you .
particularly, in this part of the country w ,
I guess I do have bone to pick with, the way taxes are distributed .
I just finished fuming at the fact that we pay an eight and a half percent sales tax and no income tax when the income tax could have been deducted from the federal form
the sales tax can't.
I think that's regressive
it's kind of dumb.
I hate the eight and a half percent sales tax.
on the other hand, I don't mind that it's only on, things that aren't like groceries and that,
it's not on that.
nobody taxes groceries.
they do.
In Arizona.
Is that right?
we have a rate here.
I think sales tax, they just got to do something about it.
that's the politicalness of trying to not create any new taxes.
Right .
I guess the comparison between the United States and, any other western country, rates are forty one, forty two and ours are thirty six, thirty seven,
if you compute as a percentage of total income, all taxes lumped together, we actually do pretty well.
there's no other country taxed as low as we are.
I still think that, having lived in Europe for awhile, difference in living conditions
are certainly well worth, what we pay for it.
not sure I understand what you mean.
I think,
I was in Germany, for several years
I'd a lot rather pay taxes here and have what we have, then have to live there.
you mean, lowest end of living in spite of taxes.
Higher taxes.
I suppose that's true,
probably so now than it was ten years ago or whatever
Still's that way to some extent.
I think the other problem is, easy to complain about taxes because there's something you, theoretically, can do something about.
I look, for example,
you're not quite in the same situation
school taxes for me
biggest bargain in the world.
I wish I didn't have to pay any more my physicians in a year
than I had to pay for all of my school taxes.
since, I send my kids to parochial school, that (( )) .
probably a little tougher on you .
quite the bargain that (( )) .
I pay them gladly.
That's a decision,
I think it's a dumb decision on our part because countries like Canada and England and Germany do perfectly well with a, two tract system in which religious schools coexist with secular schools the same tax money.
the way Americans want to interpret it,
I guess that's all right .
if I were,
when I was single and again when I'm retired,
I will not mind paying, what it takes to keep the schools good.
That's always been a high priority .
I think that's just you though.
I do,
that's true.
I think in places,
I think in places like California, people are beginning to find that areas that are fairly well off, if you add the, people of various sexual persuasions and those who never intend to marry and those who are retired and those are, just looking for fun, people with families turn out to be such a small minority that they can't get a tax bill passed no matter what happens.
there are big sections of the country where people with children of school age are such a small minority that they can't get anything done.
That seems like a cultural lapse.
people always used to be willing to ante up for the schools.
Of course, I think with the graying of America, we're going to see that problem in lots of places.
People would rather, increase the fire department and cut down the schools because it means more to them.
I think it's sad
Or build roads.
selfish and shortsighted.
Wonderful touch tone telephone there.
what kind of books do you enjoy reading?
I have a wide variety hobbies,
therefore, reading pleasures are quite wide.
I get a charge out of, TEXAS HIGHWAY,
which is, very colorful, and, not being a native of Texas, but being here eleven years have a tendency to, find out different areas state by reading it.
I've read that one too.
I only had a subscription once,
my mother always gave me hers
really enjoyed, all the little things that you find out about Texas.
absolutely, it's great the way that it's broken out and you can, set up little trips and day trips and things.
It's neat.
I like photography, magazines.
I don't take a subscription or anything like that.
being an engineer in facilities I do read building magazines and plant engineering magazines and, read up on different ways to do things and energy management type of magazines
kind of strange because not unusual to, see, an engineering manual or something laying around the house
I'll sit up and read just to refresh, to keep active on it,
How about yourself?
I have an interest in art,
I, frequently purchase and read, books, mainly on water color because that's my big interest at the moment.
that's great.
I guess I like a variety of things, lots of fiction, type books.
right now I'm occasionally reading on a book about, the Mardi Gras in New Orleans and its history.
That's fairly interesting.
I bet that would be, rather interesting.
that's, self improvement,
that's kind of a hobby
it is self improvement from the standpoint of probably relaxing,
I don't know that I read anything strictly labeled self improvement.
How about you?
I hate to,
I do .
have these classes we attend, management classes
they give you books
the last book, matter of fact I read was, AT AMERICA'S SERVICE by Carl (( Albrecht )) .
It talks about, who the customer is and being customer oriented, which falls in line with the T I culture here at Texas Instruments.
one of it's great slogans is if you're not serving the customer, you better be serving someone who is.
that's all in self improvement to stay focused on who the customer is
as you probably well know, all of us are our own customer.
Your my customer, I'm your customer, sort of thing.
every now and then I'm loaned a tape I can stick car cassette set on the way home to make the drive more enjoyable, talking about, better outlooks on things and the philosophy Pat Hagerty and these kind of, mind stimulating philosophy type.
Which all, betters yourself.
maybe I am into some things occasionally that I don't think of in terms of self improvement.
they are
I don't label it as such.
Like what for example.
I don't know,
I, have attended some seminars that had some tapes that went with them, but, I guess not so much books although they sometimes have manuals and things,
they would be things on how to be successful and sort of talking to yourself. in gear to, sort of pull yourself up by your boot straps and do what you really want to do.
Convincing you that you need to get on with it.
How about items like, THE ONE MINUTE MANAGER, which used to be a big,
those are self improvements.
our supervisor, subtly bought all of us a book called WHAT EVERY SUPERVISOR SHOULD KNOW.
By a named Doctor Bittel, B I T T E L
it's a very layman's, approach towards managing different types of people.
the very last chapter, I haven't figured out why that one was last, is how to manage engineers .
it's interesting,
here again casual reading
it's not eaten up with a lot of, (( mechanical )) stuff
it's really excellent fast reading
as you say sometimes it's difficult know if it's,
I think if somebody would say hey, read these ten books because these are self improvements, I would probably be turned off to them.
If he casually just walked into it and, put down a Stephen King book and I picked up one of them I might be a little more interested.
I don't know,
I'm not sure I could take too much of Stephen King.
That's a heavy for me.
hard to set down because it's so interesting
of course, they're all just a little spookier than the movies,
challenging to get through one of them.
I have a hard time finishing books.
I guess I also have been reading, a lot of things on, quality improvement and that type of thing because that's what I'm involved in a lot at work.
In quality, especially now days, that's almost everything that comes across the airways (( )) .
you could almost label everything quality in some sense or other
I think sometimes the word is a little over used
Yeah, I think name drop it a little too much don't fully understand it is we're saying.
I think it's just focusing in on the issue and walking your talk
all that kind of rolls in together there,
that's just kind of part of it.
any other comments.
not that I can think of.
I think I'm under my quota a little bit.
I need to probably make a phone call or two .
we just started,
this is true.
I've enjoyed it.
you too,
good bye.
Have a good day.
Good bye.
Bye bye .
I don't know about you
where I am we have extremely lax dress policy at work
it varies every day. from jeans one day to business suits the next .
It's pretty bad,
it's true,
they tend to try to be, real lax
supposedly the policy is hire these wonderful creative people
we don't want to (( smush )) their creativity,
We want to go ahead and let them do what ever they want.
you really will see people jeans one day and business suits the next.
I'm kind of that way too.
I work in the legal department
where we are now, what we're doing is some very big lawsuits that happen to have a heck of a lot of boxes of documents.
I get to toting around boxes of documents several times a day,
it always seems like I'm doing that
I can't see getting dressed up and wearing heels and stuff when you have to carry, boxes of documents around,
if I'm just going to be there working in the litigation center and doing, odds and ends and stuff with the boxes of documents, I dress down.
if we're going to have a meeting, where we're having the attorneys come in, or and stuff, then I normally dress up.
I'll wear a dress and hose and stuff.
we're kind of that way too.
I try to,
I'm the same way you are,
I kind of try to judge from day to day.
I know, where I am we work a lot with the customers
we have a lot of government folks come in all the time
if I know that they're going to be there, try to really watch it and like you say, really dress up
if I know they're not,
been doing a lot of reorganization, the last couple of months the same way you are,
impossible to crawl down on the floor and dig through boxes in a dress.
That's right,
that's right.
It is
As a matter of fact, I thought I had one funny story
when, I was at T I the first year or so, we were sent out to our record retention facility to look through two thousand boxes.
We had them in the warehouse,
at that point, was over across the road
it wasn't air conditioned,
were there like in the middle of the summer,
it's unair conditioned,
it was dusty and dirty,
there was a fan at the very end of the row
that was it.
we didn't really know we weren't supposed to,
we thought T I dress code was just dress appropriate to your job,
we wore shorts.
We didn't know that was a big no, no.
the supervisor from another area came up to us
this area where record retention is, there's only a few people that work there,
knew who worked there,
he should have realized that we weren't regulars in the warehouse there.
he came up to us
he just said, who's your supervisor.
he called our supervisor
it went up all the way to the head of facilities,
no .
complaining that we were wearing shorts.
He didn't least say to us, did you know you're not supposed to do that.
That could have alleviated a big problem.
We ended up getting called out on it.
how awful.
It sounds like Mister Power Hungry.
just yesterday, though, I saw a girl in the (( spine )) out here at Lewisville that had on a pair of shorts.
I don't care,
you can call them split skirts
you can call them (( culottes )) all you want
these were shorts.
That's all they were.
I don't care what else you call them,
if they're below the knee, okay,
maybe you can call them split skirts.
If they're above the knee they turn into shorts,
these weren't even really full ones.
they had a problem out here with it last summer, wearing these shorts that were, the real wide full ones,
these weren't even those.
These were pretty short, black,
they were very dressy,
the were black velvet shorts
she had on black hose and black heels
she looked very, very nice.
you don't wear shorts to work.
(( )) as far as I'm considered, she was in violation
nobody says anything to them.
It's always been a big problem in Lewisville in the summertime.
if they just,
the management doesn't ever seem to want to take an, cut off, that no,
this is wear we're going to draw the line.
This is shorts,
nobody will ever kind of take control and do that,
it always gets annoying because the rest of us are going, God, we have a pair of those at home too.
It sure would be cool and comfortable to wear,
I've seen some people try to just come in over the weekend because they want to use the TexTeller machine.
they have said no .
during the week you see these women, in the
just because you put on a pair of hose with them doesn't make them not shorts anymore,
I've never seen them do it without hose,
they always have hose on,
still, shorts,
I don't care what you say,
they're shorts.
I think T I's dress code is pretty lax considering everything, anyway,
that E D S has a very strict dress code,
I had a friend,
do they really?
I had a friend who worked there for a year or so
they spell it out.
For men it's particular suits, the pin stripe, and the particular colors of shirts and tipped shoes.
my God.
it is definitely lined out.
Women are not allowed to wear slacks,
you wear coordinated suits.
afford to work there.
a particular kind of shoe, high heel,
it is spelled out.
When I was looking at her materials when she first started, she had her benefits package and all that kind of stuff.
it told about the dress code
it said, these are the color pastel shirts you may wear, or white shirts with this kind of stripe in it for the men and this kind of shoe and, hair just this way.
T I s says no shorts and no halters .
I know, that's it.
E D S is very particular about this, hair cuts,
it was like you can't have, such and such facial hair, no beards, and just really detailed.
I don't know that that would be a good environment to work in.
I see,
am more,
I don't know about anybody else,
a lot of bosses may say I'm nuts,
I am more productive when I'm in pants.
I work faster,
I get things done faster, than when I'm in a dress and heels,
it's weird
I do, get so much more done if I'm dressed comfortable,
time we were there at the warehouse we felt really bad because we had, another person coming from Washington, our outside counsel.
she was told that we were going to be in a warehouse
she really didn't get the idea that we were in the warehouse part of the warehouse not the office to the warehouse, but the warehouse.
she came with skirts, just like she'd be going into the office.
to say, didn't you bring any pants or anything.
out here in the warehouse,
got your skid of, that wooden pallet of boxes.
you're going to have you skid look at the documents boxes and then repack your skid.
she ,
You can't do that in a skirt poor soul.
she was so, she was so hot and miserable, in the skirt.
She finally tried to go buy, a pair of pants
it was just completely miserable for her.
that's terrible,
that's terrible
I don't know,
I just figure, yeah,
sometimes I worry about, if I go in in pants,
ever, ever, ever go in in a pair of jeans,
I'll go in in pants.
today I had on a pair of, navy blue dress slacks like a peach colored top and, not cruddy, but not a dress either.
sometimes I wonder if stuff like that hold you back, if you don't dress in, your dress for success business suits everyday upper management doesn't notice that and remember that later on,
I don't know if they do or not.
I see a lot of the managers
they're in jeans,
Some of our people in the legal department,
we have, assistants to the general counsel
it's funny
there's one that always wears a suit.
A matter of fact, he's never seen without his jacket to the suit on, buttoned.
Really, wow.
there's another one a little younger and a little more (( yuppish ))
he's always kind of in the khaki pants and, a shirt,
sometimes he wears the jacket to it.
some of the patent attorneys have been real casual in their clothes
other ones tend to always wear a suit with a very starched cotton shirt.
that's just,
Isn't that funny.
With little suspenders or something on
That's great.
kind of had a variety there
I think a lot of times mainly who they're going to meet with,
they're meeting with people that they know is going to be dressed that way then that's how they are.
If there just going to be meeting with T I ers like to talk about a patent kind of thing and engineers that they're talking too, they dress kind of like how the engineers are dressed
they're usually casual.
It really is, because your making,
they come in, in, a six hundred dollar three piece suit, it's going to make the people they're meeting with feel very uncomfortable,
it would me,
It's one of those slippery attorneys coming in here.
look at this slick guy,
I wonder what kind of money does he make,
huh .
I can see it now.
it was good to talk to you.
It was really enjoyable.
kind of a fun project.
It really is.
I've done some of the other speech programs,
we've never got to talk to another person,
it was always just talking to the computer.
this is a little different.
it's kind of enjoyable,
I'm really looking forward to it.
thanks a lot.
Bye bye.
The question was, is your opinion of youth, spending a year or two public service.
I think it would be a great idea.
I'm not sure about requiring it, of people, because people are going, feeling resentful.
I don't know,
I think it would be a great idea.
Seems like there's so many kids that don't have any since of, what they want to be or do
they could learn something and maybe help other people at the same time
all countries sure need help
you be more in favor of, a local,
my only experience with it, I was in Central America for a while,
and, in San Salvador, in El Salvador,
For instance, everybody had what they called there social year,
that they had to put in
basically it was a, repayment high school education,
most of them joined the Red Cross
it was done internally.
I just,
there was very little external.
I think possibly what, they're thinking about here, more external Peace Corps,
Type things where we're sending people off shore.
I think that would be real interesting for people to do,
I guess, my concern about that would be the cost involved trying to train people in a new language and ship them, to other countries,
I don't know.
If you did it internally and it was just people in your own country then maybe countries that are so poor that they wouldn't be able to really, send children to do that.
I didn't know.
know how the Peace Corps works,
I, guess I was of age when the Peace Corps came in,
I was too.
and all that.
I thought seriously about joining at that time,
I thought it was a fantastic idea.
Did you ever get any information on it
I sent off for stuff on it,
I don't remember that much. about it.
I know that they trained you in the language
That's what I was wondering about was whether they actually,
You actually got paid too, while in the Peace Corps,
it wasn't much,
I guess, could put some money aside while you were there, your expenses and,
Wasn't Jimmy Carter's mama that was in the Peace Corps?
I think so,
yeah .
it might be interesting to see what would happen if you took kids and then took then to another country instead of having being exposed to all the drugs and violence and sex and everything here, and take them to some other country that had different moral values , like Saudi Arabia where they couldn't drink .
Where they couldn't do that.
you might end up with a revolution.
I don't know which end though.
Really .
been interesting, though, the kids that have been over, coming back right now,
You wonder if being exposed to that for a while, what percentage of them would actually say, Hey, that's not a bad way to do it,
from what I understand, from some of the guys I know, crime, is punishable, just almost, instantly and
Public hanging.
Public hanging and this sort of thing,
you don't have just a whole lot of,
what we consider street crimes.
I've heard that in China and stuff, there is virtually no such thing as rape, because if you rape somebody you'd be murdered, on the, street
I guess that's, the price of freedom, I guess, is a little,
the public service thing again
I guess, in my own, having had the whole three or four minutes to, give it a great deal of thought,
think I agree with you one hundred percent about it being some sort of voluntary,
when you do that then it becomes almost, a (( )) ,
it can be,
there have,
people will kind of set up their own little club,
that's true.
People that might benefit most from it might not go in that situation, like people that really are trapped in a ghetto or something like that.
Might not go if it was voluntary,
I don't know how they'd enforce it,
if it was,
if they went AWOL, what are you going to do.
Shoot them.
Put them in jail .
I don't know.
Send them over to Iraq .
Have a vacation in Iraq for a year .
I know my dad always talked about,
he was in C C C during,
he was, a rock rib Iowa type republican
the only good thing he could ever say about, the whole Roosevelt administration was, civilian conservation corps,
he was in it.
He thought that was great.
The rest of it was all hog wash,
that was great.
it seems like it would develop pride, in people, it's in their own country.
It would certainly help them to appreciate some of the things that we have here and develop some pride in them, if it was handled that way.
it would take quite a few people.
I think it might build jobs for people, that were administrating and running and training and coordinating and all that,
maybe that part of it would be helpful too.
I don't know.
the only,
to have a volunteer come here and rake leaves and mow the grass and ,
that brings up the interesting subject too,
who would determine what these people do.
it's run by the individual state.
C C C was run by the army
in effect,
the only opposition to it really was that it was, starting some sort of a military elitist type, special corps of cadre of people and that sort of thing.
when the politics get real confusing,
really there could be, some scandals involved, if, it wasn't people that were really fair and le ,
in a legal way or something,
they could send all the people over to, one particular part of town or one particular project, that somebody had paid somebody to, get supported,
(( )) .
We've gotten to the point where, if the racial make up of the group was such and such, they'd have to do that percentage of work and what is perceived to be that part of town and,
That kind of thing.
That could be a complicated too, couldn't it.
Suppose, they had a group who were construction oriented
they went and built, a swimming pool, or anything,
only build it in one place,
know matter where you build it, somebody else is going to scream, you didn't build one over here.
That's true.
Unfair or something,
I think,
boy .
It's one of those things on the surface, it seems like a great idea.
It's like a joke I heard once about, elephant foot soup,
it's easy to do once you find a elephant foot.
It's, the logistics of the thing that,
gets you going.
it seems like a lot,
you don't hear much on the news about young people really, wanting to do anything good or anything like that,
I'm sure that there are a lot of young people out there that really do have good hearts and are willing to help and serve and that kind of thing.
saw on the news the other night that little girl that used to be the littlest girl on the Cosby show, Kisha Knight Pullman, was starting a,
I guess now she's practically a teenager,
She started some type of, national organization for youth to volunteer to other kids to read and, do different service projects like that and trying to get youth more directed towards, helpful things,
I know everyone in the high schools in Dallas,
there's a couple high schools that have wanted to start a, minority,
I think it was in a Hispanic area,
they wanted to start a club for the teenagers, instead of, they said, all these gangs kids could join to belong.
they didn't have anything positive the kids could be doing, helping,
they were trying to start that out,
if there's sacrifice their time and energy. Gosh, we ought to use them.
If their willing to do it.
it's just the,
here you are to the logistics of the thing again,
Who's going to run it,
it's just so many
I said at the beginning I've got so many connections with people in Central America.
My daughter in law is Panamanian,
they have situations that down there.
Where have, social, in some sort of way,
if you want to go to school outside the country, many Salvadorians did, they'd go to school in Cornell, Iowa, of all places,
when they came back, they'd have to serve year,
it turned out to be kind of a joke,
the ones I knew, always chose the Red Cross, because they didn't do anything
I see.
they had all kinds of, things they could go into, agricultural, and
Really good stuff,
unless there was a flood or a fire or something like that, Red Cross, it was so many of them in it, that of having to do something very slim.
we, belong to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, which is (( )) the Mormon church.
is men and also women,
women aren't nearly as frequent,
also that have elderly couples once their kids have left, that can volunteer to go on a mission
they're all over the world.
its incredible logistics,
they have a training center where they teach them,
it's called the Missionary Training Center in Utah,
they have,
to be taught the language and customs and all those kinds of things,
then they, go and actually live in that country for
young men do it for two years and the young women for eighteen months.
Then that's, kind of a private organization,
familiar with,
my instructor pilot was a Mormon,
a good pilot because he considered himself indestructible,
yeah .
He had a direct connection somewhere, ,
right .
He felt that he really had an in
things he would do with an airplane,
any rate that's off the subject,
don't get paid for it,
there is funding that comes,
they're supposedly saving up on their own
the church helps them out some,
you know, that it is incredible,
I see how they were organized in,
Central and South America
I'll let you start first, okay?
presently living in a house,
first time,
we had the house built
this is fifth year in it I guess,
it was a real excitement go out and select the house and have one made and built
like you wanted it, we were the fourth to build out of three hundred and forty houses.
as we did with probably ninety five percent of the people here in Dallas Fort Worth we bought a Fox and Jacobs home,
they're good for about five years or four years
after that they start falling apart.
I would, not recommend F and J house for my dog to live in, because they're overpriced,
they're a cheap house.
If you can't afford something good,
they're good for that,
you can call it a home because it's a place to go home and keep the rain off your head,
as far as the costs for what your getting, the longevity of the house worth it.
How about in your case?
in my case my husband is not a carpenter,
in fact, he's in electronics,
he knew the only way we'd ever have a new home is if he would build it.
it took him about two and a half years,
he built us a house,
it's, F
we have thirty two hundred square feet,
it's a brick house,
price wise, it was great because he did it all himself,
that way kind of control,
in, control it,
we live in kind of a small town,
it's nothing fancy,
a house,
it's nice,
it's real pretty
we're all comfortable in it.
that's great,
that's great,
I've heard,
I have another gentleman, friend of mine, had a house built
as a matter of fact another guy is building one now,
he's been doing it for three years
the city's a little upset with him,
I understand you save a lot of money off, by doing that,
you can because that way your not having to pay the middle men and everybody else.
Nothing wrong with that,
You know.
I'll vouch for that.
of course, my husband did everything except
my brother's a trim carpenter,
he came in, and did the inside for us,
that helped.
That was a big savings.
we had to hire, of course, the plumbing and the brick and everything else, nothing,
he did everything else.
that's great.
have you been in it long?
We've been in it six years.
have you any plans to, maybe, expand or move onward?
our kids are kind of still small now,
we had thought before maybe a lot older we don't need such a large house that we'll sell it,
he will not build a second one himself.
I see,
Because he says age wise he'll never be able to handle that again .
First one is always a bear.
We're having architect friend of mine design a house for us
that can basically put
that's kind of,
we just got with him and told him what all we wanted,
he's charging us about a buck a square foot to design it
least we know not going to fall in or something if it's built.
I have heard that your approach right,
you can actually go out and sub it, you don't want to get hands on,
you can even just sub it out to concrete and those kind of things
that's kind of the plan I have
everyone I talk to, I file in my little book and do other things with it (( )) .
That's great,
that's great.
like I said otherwise,
we could not have one as large as we have if, we hadn't did it ourselves.
I can imagine.
it's not an Eldorado house or anything like that,
it's ours.
If your happy with it, that's all that counts.
That's right.
That's right.
That's all,
have to, satisfy yourself and no one else.
the appraisers likes it because our taxes sure is high .
an encouraging sign if you ever want to resell, I guess.
Isn't it?
It really is
always shocked at about, what they have it appraised at,
I think, oh my goodness.
(( )) that's great.
I guess that about does it.
it was nice talking to you.
Nice talking with you, too.
bye bye.
I think we're supposed to discuss our view of the Soviet Union as a continuing threat to the United States.
How do you feel about that.
I don't really,
I more,
I don't know about the government as much as,
the people, I wouldn't consider to be a threat at all
I really don't feel much the Soviet Union itself is a threat anymore.
worried about them.
They're in a very, tumultuous state right now with the kinds of, adaptations that they're attempting to go through,
I'm concerned about them not as a military threat, but as a burden.
They're very large
they can become very quickly a large financial burden, one more stepchild we have to carry around.
I think a real important aspect
that, as the most, the mo ,
let's see, the more that we can do to help them become self sufficient is going to eliminate more of the risk of that becoming, a reality.
I know that, this last winter was very hard on, several areas Ukraine, particularly the coal mining regions of Siberia,
the people there have money,
that's not their problem,
there's no food for them to buy,
you can't eat money.
they have, problem, whole attitude,
not sure which crop it was,
they had a crop that rotted in the fields because they couldn't get anyone to harvest it.
the people in the city were saying, why should I go do that. Make the government do that, that's not my job.
they've got a lot of adjustments to make with coming out of what they've been through now,
the oppression that they've been under for so long that now they have some freedoms
they don't know how to act yet.
They don't understand that to make that work,
they've got to take some responsibility for themselves.
It's not just the government's responsibility anymore.
You can't just blame it on the government when they give you the freedom to take care of yourself then that puts some responsibility on you as well.
I think that they're having a hard time with the concept of you can not go back.
People only go forward
I think that that is giving them,
I'm expecting a call
unfortunately, I think it's come through.
I've enjoyed talking to you.
Thank you,
All right,
bye bye.
Real problem the last few days, one of their, young hopeless stars has apparently ruined his knee for this season,
it was a catcher.
they really don't have an excess of catchers
it's really late start, be trying to trade for somebody, especially with the salary cap that the Rangers have.
They're not the highest paying ball team around.
they're not, are they.
would, I would gladly take the salary of most of the guys, I'll tell you.
I would too,
even the bench warmer, I would.
that's right.
I really haven't been an active Ranger fan in several years.
I used to go, take my son,
when he was in high school, he enjoyed going to baseball games.
I'll have to admit of went more the other team a lot of times than I Rangers,
I think they're doing better.
I do to,
I have boys, eight and eleven
we go quite often,
I can imagine.
to watch the Rangers.
I used to love to play baseball when I was a kid.
Oh yes,
we're heavy into that too.
I think it's more fun to play than it is to watch.
I do too.
I think, what caught so many of our attentions last year was that Nolan Ryan,
of course,
of course.
As a matter of fact I read in the sports page this morning,
he just pitched his first, exhibition game a day or so ago,
he pitched full innings.
That was almost unheard of for a pitcher start out that strong.
(( )) no big deal,
it's just part of a days work.
I know it,
He's something else,
he really is.
He really is an,
as far as predictions and stuff, I really think the Rangers may come out real strong this year.
They could do very well,
they sure could.
They coul , because
I don't know
last year I just figured they was under a lot of pressure because of all the publicity and everything,
I really do.
they've got, I guess all,
all their players are signed now.
Some of them are not too happy about it
no hold outs.
at least,
that should help.
that should help,
it sure should.
it should, huh.
in a way, I really do,
of course, there's a few more, I think are good ball teams also.
Oh yeah,
Like Oakland A's and the Giants
I really do.
there sure are.
I like to go watch the Giants when they come to Houston some times.
that's right.
I've never seen the Astros play.
you haven't?
I have a few times.
they're a good ball team.
That's right.
They really are.
They sure are.
Wouldn't it be something to have a World Series between the Rangers and the Astros.
though .
I tell you that would draw a crowd, wouldn't it.
Wouldn't it.
It sure would.
my goodness,
we might actually get to go to a World Series,
That's right,
wouldn't that be something.
It sure would.
That's something you dream about.
there are a lot of Ranger fans around.
there sure is
really are.
now (( Incavalia )) I don't know how familiar you are with him
last year I was kind of thinking he sure did get in a slump.
they're saying this year, their predictions is that he's really going to come out of it and,
be on top.
he's a bull, isn't he?
Isn't he though,
He really is gosh.
he sure is.
He either hits home run or strike out.
that's right.
There is not ever a in between for him.
That's right,
it's kind of like Babe Ruth.
they were saying something about this may be his last year with the Rangers though.
Apparently I think his contract is up after the end of this year
they're not sure they're going to be able to sign him again.
To sign him again,
that, may or may not happen.
you never know.
That's right,
it's a long way away.
That's sure ri ,
if you offer them money, I'm sure they'll,
That's right.
they'll do a little bit of everything.
That's right,
unfortunately the Rangers don't spread it around quite as big as some of the other teams do.
no, like that (( Joe Hosago )) ,
that's right.
Is there going to be a ticket increase this year, price, do you know.
I hadn't heard.
I haven't either,
really haven't,
Cowboys have increased their prices again this year.
Oh yeah.
I didn't know,
don't think I've heard anything on the Rangers,
I don't remember it if I have.
I hadn't either,
We hadn't,
like I said, we,
I don't even guess they've even thought about sending the schedules out yet.
I guess it's too early.
because we usually get one.
We usually order our tickets way in advance.
it's a good idea,
try to go so often.
if you have children, get a kick out of it.
they do.
I've enjoyed talking to you.
you too (( Lori )) .
get to talk again.
you take care.
bye bye.
bye bye.
do you have a favorite recipe?
that's what it said to discuss some maybe a recipe,
it says, have for a dinner party.
this is strange because I pressed one and I thought it said begin.
we're all set.
we'll talk for five minutes,
they interrupt at the end.
it says what you would have for a dinner party,
I just happen to plan one out for Saturday
I'll tell you,
that's wonderful.
what I'm going to have.
(( if )) I can find it.
I have this new fondue pot
I was going to do basic cheese fondue,
I have two different kinds of breads and some ham
I was going to try something weird which,
(( when you have )) fish au gratin,
I was going to make some, fish chunks and dip it in the fondue.
I don't know if it will come out.
what kind of fondue, the cheese dip or,
the cheese fondue I make,
some people like swiss,
I prefer cheddar.
I'll mix,
a sharp cheddar because should be a little calmer than real sharp,
I was going to make other things like potato skins.
that sounds good.
see you don't necessarily have to dip this stuff.
I was going to have broccoli and cauliflower for vegetable.
That's always a good thing.
Vegetable trays always go over so well, because I think people get tired of eating junk.
I think they like to have healthy stuff too,
it's amazing how vegetables trays will go at a party.
I think better even other kinds of food .
instead of something greasy or,
(( )) my, girlfriend's do catering
do is (( they )) have a vegetable tray.
I think they try and suggest it.
What I've been doing when I get invited someplace and bring something, I make, food kabobs.
You take little toothpicks and cut up,
pineapple and strawberry,
and even banana if you can do it just before you leave.
It stays nice and fresh.
that's true.
even have you ever seen where take a watermelon and just cut the top out of it and then hollow that out,
and then put the fruit in the watermelon that is really neat (( )) .
I like those .
made a couple of those,
they made one for my, bridal shower
(( I was )) pretty pleased.
I never made one for myself though.
they look easy enough to make
it's not,
I think be a lot of work
you have to cut each thing or, use the melon baller and stuff
I think they're really neat
I think they're worth the time, because they,
you probably pretty sticky after you get done.
Then you've got to drain the water out of the watermelon because, when you scrape it, it makes the water.
something I do (( is a )) fruit,
I'll chocolate sauce and dip strawberries and bananas in them.
I have two nieces
(( )) they go melt some chocolate chips, .
Go buy me some strawberries.
I've seen that so many times, strawberries dipped in chocolate
I've never tried it,
are they really good?
much better,
if you get a sour strawberry,
I bet it doesn't mix well, does it?
strawberries are coming in season now (( from )) ,
coming up from Florida, of course.
I live in Vermont,
they're really reasonably priced,
they're coming up from Florida,
that's good
I know they've been really expensive lately.
Because they weren't in season,
of course, they had to grown in greenhouses and stuff (( and in )) ,
get, some of them from South America.
is that right?
a lot a, winter produce comes from South America.
I (( )) .
Of course, their seasons are switched.
do you want to discuss the recipe?
I have a recipe if you want .
(( it filled )) ,
a lot of people try to stay away from this
I make my own homemade pudding just because I don't like box pudding.
Is that right?
I've never heard of that.
(( )) if you,
(( first of all )) I (( )) take about a quarter and a half of milk
I put it in a two quart saucepan
you put it on a really low heat.
you want to use one of your good sauce pans that dissipate the heat because ends up burning,
no matter how careful you are you still might get a film on the bottom of the pot.
I (( don't )) let that worry me.
I get the (( milk )) lukewarm
I pour about a half a cup of cornstarch in it
I have this thing
it's called the slender blender,
makes the, it makes, a whip topping out of milk if you get the milk cold enough.
It's, I don't know,
they're called (( moo goo leaves )) or something
they're sl ,
I think I know what you're talk ,
is it a hand held?
They're real neat.
I think they're real reasonably priced,
some of them, they used to be a hundred dollars ,
they used to whip skim milk into a dessert
I didn't get that one,
I got the Black and Decker kind.
it's real handy because it doesn't have a cord
you beat this cornstarch right into
it does an excellent job,
just hand beat it.
I guess you could use a hand mixer
it good enough.
before the milk gets too hot, I add two beaten eggs and I really mix them in good. And then about a half a cup of sugar
I let it pretty much,
I beat it every minute for about ten seconds
when it thickens the cornstarch might get a little, I don't know,
it gets little globs of this rubbery cornstarch,
you just keep beating it in.
it's the,
the trick to have this blender,
if you were,
you'd have to probably almost go out
(( )) someone who's just going to make it first time, it's,
you'll have much better luck if you had one of these little blenders.
you can add cocoa powder to it to make chocolate
after it's thickened I cook it for a good,
once it starts boiling, cook it for a good seven minutes,
seven to ten minutes
you can make chocolate
you can take it off and let it cool (( ))
you put, really good vanilla favoring in it and some butter
that makes french vanilla, custard.
That is really interesting.
Are you saying to use for chocolate unsweetened,
A chocolate powder.
that cocoa, the unsweetened.
It comes in like a real dark can,
our mothers used to use it.
I have some .
we all used to,
I just want to,
(( yeah
)) , it's the unsweetened kind
it's not like Nestles Quik.
I suppose you could use that.
I ,
Cooking chocolate.
That's really interesting,
I've never heard of anybody making their own pudding before that's really neat.
I used to make the regular pudding, the chocolate and put it in the pie shell
if it would sit in the refrigerator for a day, where you cut the pie, it would soak into the pie shell
it was red,
this is kind of (( groedy )) .
how did you get a recipe for pudding on your own?
actually I found it in one of my mother's, homemade cookbooks,
Is that right?
something she had collected out of WOMAN'S DAY or something.
that is just really neat.
I think you couldn't make it with a hand whisk a regular beater
It would probably be a lot more work and probably not turn out as good.
I still think a beater would do it good enough,
the trick is to get the cornstarch,
(( yeah
)) , right lukewarm milk.
Sometimes (( I )) put the cornstarch in a separate bowl
I would put it in the sink
I'll take my lukewarm milk and put it in the cornstarch and beat it good.
It seems to be better than putting cornstarch into the liquid
hits the top of the liquid it seems to make little balls and stuff on the top.
you put the milk in the cornstarch?
I'll do this,
sometimes (( )) I'll (( put )) my (( after I )) pour that saucepan.
I'll put the eggs in the same dish and beat them up and then pour the cornstarch and the milk mixture in the egg.
put that back in the saucepan?
if you can put your cocoa in with your cornstarch if you wanted to. The cocoa even seems to thicken it even more.
(( by )) the vanilla doesn't seem to thicken as well as the,
sometimes the cocoa is
my husband really likes it thick
he says, I can stick the spoon right in this.
I'm always worrying it won't firm up because out of the saucepan it's like, boy, I hope this thickens a little more because it's not like real package thick,
when you cook a package,
a little less,
I put it in a nice glass bowl
some people don't like film on the pudding
you can put, Saran Wrap over the top.
once the pudding starts cooling it makes little balls of water on the Saran Wrap,
when you pull the Saran Wrap back, you sort of should be a little careful, pull it back and shake the water off the Saran Wrap
I might put it back on.
put it in the refrigerator then
y ,
it starts steaming a lot, I definitely, put it in the refrigerator,
my father always told me if you put hot food in your refrigerator you're going to make it work too hard.
that's true.
I knew that.
(( That's )) ,
, that's why I do that.
I don't know
that's great hard recipe.
have you ever served as a juror?
I've never been served on the jury, never been called up in a jury, although some of my friends have been jurors.
I never have either.
You haven't,
If you were, what do you think about the whole concept of a trial by your peers?
I think it's a good idea.
I think our justice system needs a major overhaul,
I'm not sure what needs to be done to fix it.
I think they've got a lot of problems.
I think the major thing they need to correct is how long it takes something to get to jury, and to get to trial.
I don't know if that's just a pure volumes number what,
Sometimes I think the jury is ignorant in the facts of law and how things should be determined,
they're too easily swayed by their emotion.
I think that's true.
Hence is possible error as you can see in all the IRONSIDES,
T V shows.
you prefer all trials by a judge?
I think there are certain things that, the jury can determine as far as, guilty or not guilty,
as far as the affixing of punishment and fines and things of that nature, I don't know if that is best left up to the jury
Two point two million dollar kind of settlement versus a judge knowing, it's true that, this may be sad and all that thing,
the jury I think is best, in most cases, suited for determination of guilt and innocence, but not the award penalties and fines and punishment.
I would agree with that.
I think you're righ ,
I think they sometimes get carried away by the circumstances and make huge settlements thinking it's only going to cost the insurance company,
that's true.
I do like the idea of the jury being people who decide in the matter of, if it's a jail term versus life and death
the death penalty and such.
If they give them all the information.
I don't know,
when it comes to sentencing phase, I guess they tell them has a previous record and stuff.
Sometimes it seems like during the trial part, the jury's misses some of the best evidence because they make them leave,
the judge decides whether or not they should hear it.
it's kind of difficult,
I guess the whole system is set up to rather let, some guilty people go free than to put an innocent person jail
although you still hear about those occasionally.
Do you think the verdict should be completely unanimous by the jury?
I don't know.
heard a very interesting,
maybe it's just the T V show or movie I was watching,
they were going through a trial,
I think it was on one of documentary T V shows where they ask for verdict by the jury
they went by each one, saying guilty or innocent, guilty or innocent.
they took it more as just a majority.
Some of them disagree,
some of them said one way and some the other.
they took, whatever the majority was.
I didn't know if that was just something for drama or that's truly the way it is.
I always thought it had to be unanimous.
I think it does have to be unanimous.
Rather interesting.
I know they can poll a jury, make sure everybody agrees with what they said the verdict was,
I thought that they all had to agree
else was a hung jury.
I don't know how I feel about that.
I think maybe, majority might be sufficient.
It's hard to say though.
What about in international trials.
Do you think they should have a jury there?
I think that would be kind of interesting.
I hadn't thought about international trials at all.
I guess problem with that is there's no true authority in any kind of international verdicts
like, the old day with the rack.
going to say, Okay, you're guilty and you have to pay Kuwait four million dollars.
whose going to really make them.
I think it would be kind of interesting to incorporate that concept of, people from different countries, in as international law also.
I think maybe they'd need to be more knowledgeable though than just your average Joe off the street
for something like that because of the cultural differences.
Things like that.
I don't know it would take to with a true perfect system, if one exists.
What about uniform sentencing?
is that the crime
it's already, (( )) some chart and determine the punishment,
if you're convicted of a certain crime you automatically get so many years.
It's not a discretionary thing.
I think there should be a core minimum that they get
I guess there should be some flexibility because every situation may be unique, that the judge can either increase that or keep it just at its minimum, things of that nature.
I wish that when they sentence someone, if they're going to sentence him to five years, then make him serve five years.
that serves a kind of if they're, I guess,
if you sentence someone to life, life is only forty nine years, something like that.
I guess you're eligible after twenty seven for parole, even though you're in for life.
sometimes those people young enough, they can still get out and cause a lot of trouble.
although I guess it's, want them to rehabilitate and become better rather than sitting in there and being a drain all the time.
I don't believe that very often happens.
inside the jail no real rehabilitation.
I don't think so either.
In fact, I think they end up worse, because the conditions are so bad.
it's another war zone.
who knows.
maybe they ought to just be punished with kind of real punishment, like hard labor for a shorter length of time,
I agree,
get them out there,
Actually make them do something that's not pleasant and do it and get it over with and get back in the, world and not spend so much time sitting around, letting the bad influences of the other ones rub off on them,
they should have them go out and doing stuff.
Cleaning up, or picking up dirt, or weeds, or who knows what. Something state,
since the state is paying for them, they should get some work out of them.
Something besides license plates and tiddlywinks.
Trading their lives for cigarettes
those kinds of things.
I think that covers it.
I think so.
Nice talking to you.
Nice talking to you also.
Have a wonderful Easter.
You, too.
how many credit cards do you have?
four maybe.
I try to limit them because I don't use them too much.
I use my Visa just everything,
I pay it all off.
I try not to,
I just use it for free money for thirty days basically.
Sounds like we have no conflict.
We had,
for a while I was carrying one card
my wife was carrying a different one.
since the slips all look alike, you commingle them
you get the statement
you try to sort them out,
caused more confusion about it.
I finally said, Gee, this is kind of a waste of time.
when A T and T came along and offered a free one, I accepted that,
we've been using that one.
the interesting thing the amount of money you run up on them.
I don't know,
do you know any people that run up bills?
I'm in the age group you get out of college,
I think a lot of these people have them maxed out.
you able to get one while you're in college?
I don't think I ever tried.
Just curious, because I have a son that's a senior this year,
he's heading off, with any kind of luck,
there has been,
I've had a couple of ads for to provide a card for a college student.
what do you think about the idea of providing one for somebody like that?
it's, feasible,
I know a lot of college kids but just depends.
that, I guess card issuer, that
in, mo , the parent gets it for them, that really the parent becomes the one that's responsible,
basically if you want to take the risk .
it's whether the parent wants to take the risk.
It's your risk,
do you trust, son,
go run up a big bill
the thing is, there some advantages, if he got off
some place and stranded.
I'm leaning towards doing it
conven ,
I'd say, have one with,
a convenience,
at least a thousand dollar credit limit or something.
the idea that, if he got in trouble, there's ways of getting out, and that he doesn't have to carry cash.
like the idea of credit cards that, I don't carry cash around, I don't even carry checks around.
I let my wife take the checkbook,
she writes the checks,
I record them.
it's, it's interesting that, the amounts of money you can run up on credit cards,
had recently had some dealings with a fellow that
considered a modest salary for an engineer,
he had run up, more than a years salary various debts to,
he wound up declaring bankruptcy
hard to believe that you'd run up twenty, thirty thousand dollars of,
it was a combination of things
he had,
several credit cards,
there were several other businesses,
guess what's interesting, have you seen the, the ads where they're offering to extend payments from, things the credit union's offering, *
extended loan payment for your car.
I saw that.
The interesting thing about that that they're encouraging you to debt,
it's business,
they're making money off that.
they make more money if you extend your loan.
it's business,
only going to do it to cars that are one or two years old.
they've already shifted the risk.
If they assume that car, then they just have to sell it themselves,
they'll recover the loan,
they know that people own a car that new unless absolutely die of service *
(( )) they're not going to keep on if the car were older.
The interesting thing about it that economy standpoint in economics,
thinks it's, I think it's economics carry all that consumer debt
at least from a tax standpoint,
It's interesting the American public is encouraged to incur all that debt and then next year none of it will be deductible,
this year it's ten percent or so.
interesting they encourage us to do things,
ten percent, we can deduct,
I think ten percent,
I didn't know that.
consumer credit.
if you had a thousand dollars, that means there's another hundred dollar deduction I've given you.
I didn't think you could,
any thing on a loan
it's on, yeah.
a mortgage I know you can,
there's a place for consumer debt
you take ten percent of it,
on the,
I've never itemized yet.
maybe that's.
It's on schedule,
Schedule A or,
Schedule A under,
you put, interest.
see makes Texas squirrelly laws that take out second mortgage, like some states where you can take out the mortgage and declare that,
it's fully deductible.
The laws are a little squirrelly,
it basically comes down to
it's not in your best interest to borrow money from a tax standpoint.
really do, I just try to stay out of debt,
use my Visa as much as I can,
I pay it all off,
Sounds like
there're a lot of people who really run,
my boss drives quite a ways to work,
he's got just enormous debts,
what do you say, it's Shucks, Boss, I'm sure sorry you've got all that debt.
he's two kids in college this kind of thing,
I think that the whole credit card issue, I think they certainly encourage people to run up the debts
I agree with you
my debts.
I did buy a new house last summer.
Hell, I took a five year note out on my car got out of college,
I'll never do that again.
I still got a couple of years on it to go,
remarkable how many people as soon as they get out of college buy a new car,
been going on for a really long time.
I didn't do it.
bought a second hand car when I was, the middle of my senior year.
think you're starting out well, until you start paying all those bills.
apartment rent,
Miscellaneous things like food and
other things,
these habits you get into, eating
it's amazing learn.
anything else good to say about credit cards?
I might just,
they're convenient,
that's probably one big thing about them,
You don't have to carry the cash,
it's certainly accepted
it's hard to cash a check if you're out of state,
I was used to using my credit card, at Skaggs Alpha Beta in Dallas, and stuff
now I'm out here in Phoenix.
tha ,
none of these grocery stores take any credit cards,
now I have to carry cash when I go to the grocery store, which is new to me,
I got to have sixty bucks on me or something.
Carry all that cash with you.
that was interesting, cause I always,
didn't have to worry about carrying that much unless I knew I,
they've started towards a little bit of the debit card,
have you seen the debit cards where they actually debit your account when you,
I've heard about them.
I think that's where,
That's mostly locally,
the banks will line up with,
I've seen a couple,
although the,
so many of the grocery stores don't do that because of time frame which they get paid, in general,
I've seen checks
My wife will write a check for groceries
I guess it's the day after,
technically it's two days,
they took that check and scurried it to the bank
the bank scurried it back to my account,
you thought there'd be just a little bit of float,
apparently that's why the, grocery stores are reluctant to do that, because their volume, that is quite high,
they have,
the costability of the cash flow is a big issue for them.
it's good talking to you.
All righty.
Maybe paths again.
Good night.
All righty.
Take it easy.
what kind of weather have you had in Dallas? .
it's been very windy,
it's, probably unseasonably hot for time right now.
I lived in Euless
I thought it was pretty normal,
I guess you're right though it has been real hot,
I've had to use the air conditioner in March,
we've already had to use that,
(( my husband )) usually,
we've had
this is probably typical though, we,
like tornado weather and tornado warnings,
forget from year to year.
I'm getting too old.
it, th , the wind's blowing very hard,
I guess, we're just out of March,
I know,
will bring the rain in, April.
The trees are real pretty right now and everything.
I don't know.
I know the pollen is real high,
I think it's higher than usual, isn't it?
it is.
Seems very high.
It hasn't bothered me,
I know that people that have allergies it seems to be pretty high.
I know.
It's been bothering me a lot,
I think the weather overall has been, a little bit warm
A little bit warm
and a little bit blowy, I think.
we basically live in the same area
it's real hard to,
Really hard to make too big of different comparisons,
I know.
I just think it's been warm,
it's been hot,
I liked it,
it's beautiful,
all the trees are pretty,
I wish it would stay like this all the time .
I could stand this all summer.
I could too.
gah, I don't think we can say anything else really.
I don't think we can either,
let's cut off.
that sounds like a good deal.
you have a nice day.
You too.
talk to you later.
Bye bye.
Let's talk about the Middle East situation.
The U S involvement in there, then I guess even though.
Now all over with,
it is over
I don't think we're out of there by any means,
I wonder are we going to set up peace keeping type forces for long term.
is that something we should do or shouldn't do?
I don't know.
I don't know
I understand that the U S is talking about leaving more of its planes and things over there.
I guess, anti U S in that region
now they're,
Syria and Egypt, had some pressure against the U S,
wouldn't allow us to have a base in that region
now I think they are rethinking that.
I think that's true because of all the support that came through.
That's right.
The other thing that I think is good for American businesses are to be involved is reports that I hear back
of course on the news I try to listen and also read between the lines .
they said that because the Americans took such a proactive stance involvement in the war that
so much of the business and the rebuilding in Kuwait and things like that will go to American businesses where as before they may be dealt with Japanese firms or other people.
They said even though the Japanese were involved monetarily, they still
the priority ought to go to American businesses, for our economy.
They get so much of our money from oil anyway .
don't you know,
we don't seem to slow down even when there is a crisis .
I think that's a nice gesture, on the Kuwaiti government part to do that,
a few people I guess will make a few people pretty wealthy in construction and so forth.
I imagine.
Your oil companies, they may see,
probably the first big rise in business they have seen in years.
Go over there and rebuild all those.
I think it's such a shame that the Iraqis had to just go destroy everything.
I just.
I do too.
If I can't have it, you can't have it,
that sounds like something a little kid would do.
look at their war,
that was his whole war
I'm not satisfied with what Iraq has,
I want what everybody has.
That's right.
you're right,
it's like you see two little pre school kids fighting over a toy,
am a little concerned about
I know they are putting President Bush right now in an awkward position concerning the,
The treaty over there right now.
You know what am I trying to say?
The deal with the supporting the Kurds.
supporting the Kurds
the cease fire,
the cease fire.
I'm trying to say another, because he
because wants them to uphold their end of the deal as far as the cease fire
at the same time, he's not wanting to go in and say, Okay, I'm going to fight your war for you, I think is right. *
if it's an internal thing, I don't think we can walk in and say, Gee, I think you're right, and you're wrong,
we're not the judge and jury.
I know that that's causing him a little bit of unpopularity with the people over there because they feel like, Gee, you told us,
to help out.
to stand up against him, but you're not helping.
I think he's in a pretty awkward position now
think we ought to help,
Maybe supply some arms or something.
supply arms and support them if they need help
I don't think we ought to be over there fighting it for them,
I think he's done good on that stance.
I think Bush this whole situation quite well.
He stood up the bully and,
didn't back down
Saddam Hussein miscalculated all along,
I would say.
thinking that he wouldn't commit U S lives forces monies liberate a little country.
That's right.
then he underestimated his ability wage a war with us.
one thing when we all came over there and said, Okay, here we are, get out, he said, No, win a war with you guys.
that was a horrible miscalculation.
I agree,
they'd advertised and said in the news and said he had the fifth largest army.
he may have
Not any more .
not any more
you have to have loyalty,
you have to have people who believe in your cause.
I know they tried to turn it into a holy war, because to them that is what's honorable.
if you die in a holy cause,
I think they are smart enough,
to see there's nothing holy about it.
We just want to go in and took it.
Saddam Hussein is not a religious person,
he uses it.
When he sees it to his advantage.
I think the people were smart enough to realize that,
I think they're afraid of him. Is what they are.
The population is afraid to speak out against him
I don't think he's going to be there too much longer.
I hope that's true.
Someone is going to assassinate him,
I would think so,
I would think that ,
I guess in the back of my mind I think maybe the Israeli Massad probably has ideas of going in and,
I thought they, showed a tremendous restraint in their reactions towards everything,
I don't believe for a minute that that means that they don't have ideas and plans of their own .
That's right.
I do agree with you,
I think President Bush handled it all politically very smart, giving the support the other Arabs and other nations in the world
I think, that's how you have to go into something like that.
I've heard reports that President Bush was staking his future on war and that setting a precedent saying that this League of Nations will always combine against bullies and to stop this kind of stuff in the world.
Any would be bully would think twice if he knew that,
there's this United Nations or world government or whatever they keep talking about that the whole world will deal with you.
don't you feel? *
do it and get away with it, hoping that
That's right.
because it's a world thing
the nations will combine against you
just do this.
don't you think that long term that's been a big boost for the United Nations.
the United Nations been there for years, but all of a sudden.
there are some teeth behind it
the fact that when they have sanctions and we support things like this, it means something.
I think that's good for the strength of the United Nations.
I guess, I feel sorry for just the average, Iraqi,
who has had to go through all of this and the suffering. I'm sure with no water,
rebuild from nothing.
No electricity, no sanitation,
it's not getting any better,
the sanctions are still on.
That's true.
except for a few medical supplies they are allowing through now and then powdered milk, I guess, for babies and things
until they,
I guess, yesterday they came out with rules I guess or whatever.
They supported it.
For a cease fire
the Kuwaitis said, We don't want to have to repay Israel for all the bombing that we did that was in there, you
That is right,
that's only fair.
they did ask that they build up Israel and Kuwait.
I think they should have to.
They lost .
It's going to be really tough for them to swallow,
we don't want a Kuwait there no power at all,
because Iran still isn't too friendly with them.
that's true.
we don't want, to be stabilized to the point where Iran will say, Now is our chance, to go in and wipe them out
I don't think Iran is under the same type of madman type leadership,
there's always the possibility, I guess.
since Khomeini died over there, things have gotten a little more normalized.
I think so.
Not quite as radical a stance, more moderates are in power now.
I think the person who really may be at this time has a hard road to tow is Jordan's King Hussein because he really kind of,
Put in the middle.
really tried to kind of straddle the fence.
he wasn't necessarily for Iraq
at the same time, he didn't feel everybody ought to be going against Iraq.
yet so many of the citizens are Lebanese.
Who were hoping this would evolve into a war against Israel.
And trying to connect with Israel all that time
there really was no connection at all.
boy those Lebanese in Jordan, they were saying this whole war is Israel's fault because Israel told the United States to attack Iran
Israel controls our government.
I know,
isn't that amazing the way that they will find their cause
no matter what situation they see they're going to find their cause whether it truly exists or not.
one thing I did learn was how deep hatred runs toward Israel by a lot of countries.
I know.
They just hate,
anyway see to connect into something and hate it more,
they just,
I understand most of the land is now Israelis,
they bought,
That's true.
actually purchased it moved in and started a country.
you are also getting back to the ages old problem of Arab Israeli conflict,
as far as personalties and who is the selected one of God
theirs tie so much to their religion.
they both have holy sanctions.
very different things than what we face.
Okay .
do you is think is main change in?
What generation are you,
thirty years old?
I'm twenty nine.
You're twenty nine,
both children of the very early sixties.
seen some change,
I know, when I was young most mothers pretty much were housewives,
stayed at home with the kids,
me it seems its almost the opposite now where woman is working and,
and they, take the children to child care,
maybe they work part time or something.
that seems to be a pretty big change.
the family structure in general is being really restructured from one income to two incomes which means from one parent to two part time parents,
if you're lucky .
it's both of us then were really just adolescents
I think, most of the major changes for adult women were going on,
in America.
I don't think, changes are still progressing,
it seems to me that the early seventies was a period of the most change,
if I had to somewhat abstract about it, it seems to be the major change has been that woman have acquired more choice.
that's true.
That's true.
that's sort of the meta change as it were. where that woman really have more of a choice now about what they do.
course, they find that the choice creates its own hardships in a way because life is not quite as simple even if it is for your,
you can share something you really want, which is a wonderful thing,
it does seem
an awful lot of adult women friends are anguishing these choices.
I know, the choice to either work or to be a mother is probably pretty difficult because I think women just naturally tend to have those instincts that protected the children,
and you want to be with the children,
yet there's so many material things to be had out there that a lot of people think, if we both work, we can get a really big house,
and we can have two really nice cars, we can take a vacation, we can do this,
it's kind of almost expected of you anyway.
People kind of look down role of a woman as a housewife,
it's kind of like, she didn't go to college,
and she's just a housewife.
She just settled for that.
Even though there's probably women with M B A's, maybe even Ph D's, that are staying at home with the children.
I only know,
I have,
of my friends who children,
I only know of one woman who's decided to go that quote, unquote, traditional route.
I have a lot of respect for her, because she made it as a real choice.
She really knew that she didn't have to do that,
she decided that was what she wanted to do in her life.
she wanted that role.
She's a marvelous parent
say all power to her because she's an example to me of someone who really does have the choice.
I feel that a lot of, women don't,
all right I said they have the choice
they don't necessarily feel that they do because they no longer feel like if they were just to be a parent rather than, a sort of super woman success in the business world as well,
they would somehow be perceived as a failure,
in their own eyes or in others,
it's not a choice anymore.
frankly, it's the way that men are.
men don't have this choice,
they don't feel this choice.
in most subcultures in America I've been exposed to, if the man were to say, no, I've decided not to work, I want to stay home and do the child rearing, my wife has a good job and I want her to keep that, *
and going to be the primary caretaker, take care of the children, because we don't want to put them in day care, and this and that. I think most Americans would feel funny about that.
Maybe sort of feel like he isn't that success that he could have been.
There's some T V show on now
think I've seen it once.
I don't get to watch much T V,
there's a T V show where the man is the one raising the kids,
and the wife is,
maybe they based it on that MISTER MOM movie,
I didn't happen to see that.
there is a T V show out there.
I guess they're trying to gain more public acceptance of things like that.
I know there are cases of where that happens
people who did that years ago,
they were very apologetic about it
you could tell they were used to people saying, What are you doing that for,
It's probably getting more and more accepted today,
in fact it seems it's kind of like anything goes now,
you're not too surprised on much of anything.
When, the husband's the one at home raising the children,
the mother works,
that's not real surprising.
I've seen more and more companies that have, parental leave, not just maternity leave.
They can have paternity leave, as well as maternity leave.
In fact I'm pretty sure TI has something like that
one of the area supervisors, in my area, as a matter of fact, took off, for a couple of weeks, when his wife had their baby.
Now it might have been just to take care of her and the baby,
instead of having a nurse, or someone come in, or,
or something like that, they call it that they have for the first couple of weeks.
I don't know if he took that out of his vacation or if they really do have a paternity,
he put paternity leave up there,
it might have just been him describing the fact that he was taking vacation days to go be a father for a little while,
I don't know.
I'm not real sure how that goes.
the other big change I see woman's lives is, to remain biological
they children much later in life.
my friends who are having children are having them at age thirty.
if I'd been a couple of generations ago, they would have had kids running around by then.
people they, in general, are just getting married a lot later.
I'm still single
I'm sure I'll be in her thirties I get around ever getting married and having kids.
that's getting a little more common too.
I actually think that somewhat encouraged by that trend, because after all people live longer lives now,
so, you're going to, pass away before your child is an adult,
barring, unforeseen circumstances.
I think, most people make better parents when they are a little bit more mature.
I agree .
I really do.
I agree.
I think it also gives a woman a chance, if she does have a job and a career,
it gives the man and the wife both the chance to both be working and maybe save up some money
it gives her a little more option if she wants to stay home with the children while they're young,
and, be a mother for awhile,
once they've gotten to school age maybe she could go back to work.
she's kind of got that option,
they wait till later, they've saved up some money,
not as difficult for her to stay at home with the kids and live off one income, or something.
That's true.
I guess, pretty encouraged .
I really am.
then I'm a product of my generation,
I don't know, if I had been born a hundred years ago and were looking at this time, I might not like it,
it sure seems nice to me.
I have other things to complain about,
in terms of, woman's roles,
things really seem a lot more flexible.
I seem to see more women leadership type roles and management positions,
it's still,
in politics,
it's still a small minority,
it's an improvement.
It really is.
the Mayor of Dallas is a woman.
I'm sure that twenty years ago that never would have happened,
in her second term now.
this is her second term,
I think, she's
not going to run again after this.
we do, and we have several council women that are women,
you just start hearing more and more.
In fact, Governor of Texas is a woman, too .
Oh .
We can't forget that one.
her name?
Ann Richards.
we don't get much Texas politics out in California, to be honest.
She was inaugurated in January,
you're starting to see more of that
I know when I was younger it was all the Presidents, and still all the Presidents are men,
I'm sure that one of these days, look at Ferraro ran for Vice President,
That's right
I guess one of these days, eventually have,
although the Presidential debates, there was some really nasty patronizing,
stuff toward,
I don't know if you saw those,
I thought she was treated badly for being a woman,
then vice presidential candidates,
who really, I thought, had a demeaning attitude towards her.
acceptable to say certain types of things to her that she couldn't say back,
that kind of thing, which, I found myself getting quite enraged about.
really, that's a previous generation.
I don't,
it's harder to imagine people of our age doing that,
and not feeling really stupid.
Right .
I agree.
I think gotten our five minutes
they've gotten their five minutes worth of us.
I've enjoyed talking with you.
It was nice talking to you, too.
take care.
You, too.
Bye, bye.
Bye, bye.
do you feel about, drug testing?
personally, I don't have a problem with it,
I think, as far as, protecting fellow employees, protecting their reputation of the company and the quality of work that the people do, it's justified.
On the other hand, I do agree that it's an invasion of privacy as far as a person's involvement outside of work.
have a problem with anyone testing me,
I can understand why people would object.
I'm kind of mixed on it,
still at this point.
I am too a little bit,
don't want to be around people who are really on drugs and that sort of thing,
obviously they're probably not going to be doing a good job and so forth,
I don't really like having to do it.
That's right.
I don't like the idea of it, makes too much of a big brother type of thing.
That's absolutely right.
I guess it all comes down to, definition of, how much activities affect your work
granted, that,
kind of drug use company property and whatnot,
definitely not acceptable.
I don't think anybody would ever argue that.
Or, after affects carrying over into the workday
particularly concerned with what people do, after they leave for the day especially see any results of it the next day.
I think so too.
it's one of those things.
on the other hand you've got possibility of people,
you've got some people could be arrested for, drug use, drug dealings and things like that,
employers name hits the papers and that
it's a mark against them,
the company and, what kind of people work there, what,
I guess, if they are in problem enough to be jailed or something of that nature for any length of time, then the company has lost what they've put into that employee,
That's right.
That's right.
and their expertise or whatever.
if it is, a company policy of, immediate termination or whatever, they still have to replace them.
a lot involved there.
do you think that, it should be like we have this sort of random spot testing type of thing
do you think it would be more palatable if we had some sort of regular schedule
would that just allow everybody a chance to get out of it?
the regular schedule stuff, that when you say everybody get out of it, that's a good point,
I never really thought of it that way.
they have time enough they can,
if they really can,
stay off of it.
I think problem I've got forcing it on someone after they've already agreed to the terms of employment.
as far as the new hires, hired on just early enough that missed it. where the new hires were concerned
I don't think anybody questions that, testing someone precondition to being hired
for the conditions that, for our employment to change while you're on the job don't know, that, that's where I think that most people get upset.
it's changing the rules in the middle of the game basically
it's a really tough question
people really quieted down after everything started
I still think resentment.
I think so too,
I know group I was in at the time this all came up they, were quite vocal about it, through electronic mail,
boy, they just really,
, let them have it from one end to the other,
You bet.
it has quieted down,
I don't think they probably feel any differently,
that's right.
of them did quit the company.
know of some people who did,
indirectly related, D you know,
they could always come up with other reasons
had a lot to do with it. Just whole attitude,
seems so un ,
T I, with whole relaxed atmosphere that we have,
to all of a sudden, search for (( )) attitudes and whatnot.
there's not a lot of pressure vote the right way or anything else around T I.
is in some companies or at least,
from what I've heard,
I wouldn't like anything of that nature,
don't tell me what to do,
Absolutely not,
if you hired me I'll be,
supposedly your grade was a little majority of my views and my qualifications to begin with
stick with that original trust, I guess.
still remains a tough question
a lot of, department of defense, reasoning behind the original plan and whatnot.
There's a lot of different things that, come into play
that was,
I think pretty much knows that that was kind of a smoke screen to implement it throughout the whole company.
I guess too if I thought that this would help really and truly do away with the drug problem, then that would be one thing.
I think it's too minor and too,
the whole scope of things this isn't going have any real affect on,
I really don't think so.
what's going on in the street.
I really don't because, some people going to risk it,
it may prevent, e ,
guess, I guess what I'm trying to get at is, if it does help a few individuals it's worth it.
it may prevent somebody who teetering on the edge of experimenting or whatnot
I don't know if, the,
a needs of the few and the needs of the many type situation
I don't know if everybody should have to sacrifice quite as much.
still a big question in my mind
the absolute refusal to accept the possibility mistakes on the testing,
is something that still bothers me.
think that could be a big problem,
I would just be irate if they said it was positive and I knew it wasn't,
that just really rubbed me the wrong way.
don't know if, I don't know if everybody understands all the implications on that too. take, drug that was for you
the, the prescription has run out you still had some left
you happen to take an extra penicillin,
penicillin's not on the list
think you understand what I'm getting at,
can still show up
it can still flag as a positive
those kinds of things obviously that's not the intent,
those are the kinds of things that still can show up.
I guess the one that really got me too was that,
let's say your spouse is on a particular drug
you know what that is,
you end up with the same problem
you take their leftover medicine,
that's not allowed.
That's right.
totally out.
That's right.
I even had friends when I was going to college who were in, (( )) pharmacy school
they could legally, provide medicine to their family members and friends
certain medicines legal now
I believe, ones be tested for wouldn't be on those lists,
there were certain things that they could provide without a doctors prescription based on their qualifications
that's interesting.
that can happen.
I guess we've exhausted that one.
I think so .
enjoyed talking to you.
You too.
Good bye.
Good bye.
what's your views on it?
I think it's, a good idea.
I grew up,
my teenage years were spent during the sixties,
graduating, high school in sixty eight. I remember when the Peace Corps movement first came about,
I thought it was a very good idea at the time.
I was one of those, Kennedy children, if you know what I mean.
right now I see a lot of kids who get out of school, have no idea what they want to do.
there's a lot of things out there that we could do, for our own country,
let alone other countries,
I think that we've got people power to do it,
it's just,
we need to channel it and focus it on some things need some fixing up.
some examples are things, like Jimmy Carter's been involved in, a little program to, fix up housing for people.
there's a lot of housing,
I know in the area that I live in, that's run down and beat up,
it could be fixed up and used,
it's just, sitting there wasting away.
we're not too far behind .
I graduated in seventy one,
same generation.
it's going to be a short conversation because I agree with you.
think, even think it ought to be, voluntary,
I think it ought to be mandatory. for kids to do military service, or public service, one of the two.
a lot of reasons for that, just because hard ass or anything.
It's just that, like you say, kids are getting out of high school not knowing what in the heck they're going to do,
either the military or public service organization can give them a lot of focus.
I think that it might stop us some problems later on.
these kids will get heads on straight, figure out what they want to do, instead of hanging around street corners selling drugs or something.
good for them,
it helps mature them a little bit, and helps them understand the world, the way it really is.
I think a lot of people grow up preconceived notions what the world's about.
A lot of it has to do from too much T V,
there's a heck of a lot of difference between, the intake that you get from T V movies, and what you hear in school, and then what reality is.
I remember, worked since I was,
I started delivering papers when I was ten,
I had a real job when I was thirteen,
I've, worked most of my life.
I remember when I got out of high school, all through high school was,
boy, I can't wait to get out of high school,
I can't wait to get out of high school.
I wanted to go to college,
I had the grades to go to college,
I got accepted to college,
when I got out of high school, I kind of said, what am I going to do now?
when I actually started working full time, got married shortly after getting out of high school.
I, thought I was smart, ran away and got married,
I remember there was a time, within the first year of marriage, I said, boy wouldn't I give to back in school,
and just have to do homework, go work my part time job.
Because, life, and the reality of working for a living, and trying to make ends meet, is just so overwhelming to someone,
if they aren't prepared for it.
most of them aren't.
That's true.
at the number of marriages that are occurring right even in high school,
wonder, where are the parents in all of this.
why isn't somebody stepping in to this.
Kids in high school are just too young to be married.
no idea what the world is like.
They don't how tough it is out there to make a living.
I was in the same boat when I left high school.
to go straight to college
I didn't.
I was ready,
I was ready,
I had wanderlust,
I wanted to get out and see some things.
I joined the Air Force and ended up staying there for thirteen years.
I had lived in my own little bubble up until that time,
after traveling around the world a few times, I realized that, things ain't the way they seem.
did a lot of growing up there,
I think kids get out and see how other people really live,
and know how bad off some people really are, and how good they've got it,
That's right .
and what it takes to have that good life,
That's right.
if you're willing to work for it,
then they're probably be more inclined to work for it.
it's just like you say, there's so much stuff that needs to be done here in this country,
you could have a thought of something Peace Corps sort of organization. this would be so useful, helping old folks.
need help,
they don't have anybody to depend on,
it would be nice to have somebody come over and cut their yard or paint their house, or do minor repairs, or something like that.
parents are in their late sixties now,
many of the people that live around them are unable to do those things for themselves anymore.
really hard on them,
thought that see mall rats, walking around the mall, nothing better to do than just walk around the mall all day long, when they could be doing something to help someone.
there's nice warm feeling,
I remember getting out of doing things like that when I was younger,
I was a Boy Scout
the whole bit and,
my mom's in the same position, late sixties,
it point where, me and my brother both gone, and she couldn't maintain the house, without large expenditures of money.
it finally got to a point where she just had to sell it and move into an apartment.
I'm not saying that that wouldn't have happened anyway,
it would have been nice if there had been somebody to come around and take care of the little things. yard work and little repairs, and painting and stuff like that.
I think be economic benefit for, everyone concerned,
Oh yeah,
those doing the work, and those receiving the services.
the kids who would be giving the service are going to get a lot more out of it than just money.
remember when I was a kid, I used to do things for the old folks around the neighborhood,
I know how it made me feel.
you s ,
just don't help people anymore.
out for themselves
I think, President Bush covered that in his, State of the Union Address this year when he said that, it's time for, the individuals to start thinking about what they can do to help each other out instead of counting on government to do everything.
that's the point we've gotten to,
Every time somebody wants something they always turn to the government.
the government's going to be limited.
where are they going to get the money?
They're going to get it from us.
we can do it a lot more efficiently than the government.
We don't need to add fourteen layers of bureaucracy to a program.
the thing that Carter works on, Habitats For Humanity, I was involved in that in Montgomery, before I came up to North Carolina,
a pretty neat little program.
We'd just go out,
and they would buy a plot of land, and contractors and builders,
everybody else would donate time,
the materials were at cost.
we'd put up houses.
of neat.
think it's a little bit inefficient,
it's better than nothing.
at least I had the opportunity of seeing two families move into decent housing.
course, on the other hand, I can start complaining very loudly about people on public assistance who are quite capable of doing something for themselves, but just won't.
Because it's far more advantageous for them to sit there and just draw, welfare money than it is to work.
we did cost comparison in one of my courses,
we took all the benefits married couple with two kids would get under welfare, what they would be making at minimum wage.
they came out four thousand dollars better a year, by taking welfare.
there's no incentive for them to do anything.
Far better for them to sit on their butts and draw the money.
One of the things they tried to push through in Maryland, weren't very successful was that if you were an able bodied person on welfare,
You had to do something.
you had to do some work.
in Alabama too,
it got shot down.
understand the reasoning for it.
I really don't.
seems perfectly logical that if somebody's going to take public money, then they should return something to the public.
if nothing else, go out along an interstate and pick up garbage.
That's exactly what they were trying to get them to do.
do in Maryland,
do they use highway people
do they use prisoners?
the way they did it in Alabama, too.
they use both.
you'd see these big chain gangs out there, picking up trash.
program in Maryland that's called Adopt A Highway.
we have that here in North Carolina.
good afternoon to you, Mary.
let me ask you, the weather like up there to begin with?
today, when I got up it was twenty nine degrees.
it managed to get up to about fifty this afternoon
it's been cloudy, overcast and threatening rain all day.
That sounds more like our winter weather down here.
we've also had extremely strong winds, fifteen to twenty miles an hour,
for the day.
I bet that's had last night.
Is that right?
we had a frog strangler go sw , sweeping through here, yesterday and last night.
we're expecting another one tonight.
it was raining so hard you could swim down the street.
We had one of those two days ago.
rain at all yesterday and, no rain today.
it's probably on its way up there.
It was heading north.
Thanks a lot .
you send us some nice weather?
it was nice today.
was it?
in between the thunder showers,
thing's for sure we can always discuss the weather,
how some ever we can't do very much to change it.
what they say about the weather here in Texas?
What's that?
don't like it, five minutes, it'll change.
that's about the way our weather is here also.
I grew up in Saint Louis,
Saint Louis was much the same.
tell me, it normally that cold up there the Spring?
it's not.
This is, about, ten degrees cooler than usual.
about a week ago we were up to eighty and eighty five degrees.
You're kidding?
fluctuates from one extreme to the other it seems.
sure you didn't leave your refrigerator door open?
I'm sure I didn't.
I was ready to turn on the air conditioning.
really was extremely warm.
It only got down to about sixty five in the evening.
We had about three or four days of that,
all of a sudden a cold front came down and, temperatures dropped thirty degrees in a very short length of time.
it has gone down gradually each day.
This morning it was twenty nine,
yesterday it was about thirty two.
cars were scraping, ice off their cars this morning if they've been sitting out all night.
Mother Macree.
it really pleasant .
I should say not.
sincerely hope that you don't have that terrible storm we had.
I hope,
I hope,
it doesn't reach you up there.
they are predicting rain and thunderstorms,
I wouldn't be a bit surprised by what we would not be getting the same weather you had.
let's hope it,
it's the same as what we had, at least it'll be warmer.
warm rain,
of course, by the time it gets up here it may into a cold front coming down from Canada.
whew, that would be tear disastrous. If you,
had that rain storm and freezing weather.
golf ball size hail coming down in one part city of Dayton itself.
then we just had about an inch and a half or two inches of rain in less than an hour.
It was just coming down by the bucketfulls and a great deal of lightning.
it wasn't conditions to being out in it
I had just gotten home.
We had a lot of tornado warnings also.
I had gotten home shortly before that, the rain started.
I felt a little more secure that I was at home rather than having to be out driving in it.
I heard on the news this morning that, one of our local schools, lost the roof of their gymnasium.
Is that right?
they suspected may have been a tornado.
thank God for small favors, the,
what do they call them? the marching band or something?
had just quit rehearsal about a half hour before.
that was, fortunate for them because that could have really been disastrous.
of course this is tornado season,
in to,
we have many tornadoes spawned in this area. And northern Indiana,
now we're in the southwestern part of, Ohio,
just forty miles north, due north of Cincinnati,
northern Indiana, has many tornadoes come roaring across.
we get the backlash off of it, if not the part of the tornado itself.
get a lot of bad weather in this area.
of course you're supposed to be the sun belt,
I do know that you get some freezing weather down there on occasion.
during the winter,
we do.
we've had, past four or five years, I guess, at least one day during the year when just everything would just close down because we'd have freezing rain.
of course people down here, they just don't know how to handle themselves
I was going to say that it does make a difference when you're not accustomed, to,
having to,
not only that,
drive in it.
don't have the equipment to handle it either.
they go out there,
all you can do freezing rain of course, is sand on the ice.
we don't even have vehicles that will do that.
have to get, a truck of sand and, four or five laborers up there just spreading it by hand. *
here what they do and contend that it's certainly not the right thing to do, they spread salt.
of course the salt does melt the ice,
then what melts immediately freezes and becomes, a perpetual problem.
to make matters worse, it destroys your vehicles too.
it sure does do that.
they do that down here too.
They mix the salt in with the sand.
sand, and,
I have learned to do, to carry bags of salt in the trunk of my car.
not only in case I need it for that for traction but for additional weight,
in the,
back of the car.
of course kitty litter is also excellent for that. I don't know whether you've ever thought in terms of,
a dog lover myself.
the dogs don't use litter.
kitty litter is excellent for, getting under the wheels of cars
and what have you and giving you traction.
I guess it would be.
it, works out, really quite well.
Course a dog also.
My son brought me a little Lhasa Apso, for my birthday last Thanksgiving.
He brought him from Dallas.
wasn't that nice of him?
he just thought I had been without a dog, for three years.
That was long enough.
I have, Chowperd myself.
a what?
A Chowperd.
that one I'm not familiar with.
she's part Chow and part Shepherd.
that makes sense then .
she's the best,
I believe,
the best of both breeds.
I've always had big dogs before. Never had a little dog before.
is medium sized.
she is scared to death of thunder storms.
I had a German shorthair that was frightened of storms.
The minute it would begin to storm, he would just panic.
I had to push him down when he was fourteen,
two months later I had to put my yellow Lab down,
because he had leukemia.
there was no point in having all my acreage.
I had four and a half acres with game preserve on three sides.
that must be nice.
it was great.
I loved it.
then I didn't need all that anymore, so I finally sold that,
I'm in a fair size condo.
I have a nice size patio.
this little dog has plenty of room to run.
he is cutie
I've never had a dog I had to keep taking to the groomer's to have groomed either .
it sounds you ought to be in a condo down in Miami Beach somewhere.
better yet, down around Saint Petersburg, Florida.
Is that right?
That's what I call home.
is that right?
I lived there for ten years.
I was there once back in nineteen sixty, I think for just a week's vacation.
been to Florida, except passing through on the way to someplace else.
I lived there in the seventies.
love it.
I have two sons still living down there.
most of my friends do spend a lot of time down in Florida.
not been my thing.
We used to always head west or head north.
Now that I'm alone I, prefer to travel overseas if I'm going anywhere.
course there too you never know what the weather's going to be.
When you,
start getting over,
why I was suggesting, that Saint Petersburg got to be the finest weather in the world.
is that right?
loved it down there.
Course you could which were
and which ones were the snowbirds.
is that right?
the snowbirds were the,
what we should talk about is, the war.
The war that just went on.
don't agree with it.
First of all I don't believe in war.
the United States has this attitude by saying, thank you for keeping us our freedom and stuff like that.
I think it's all independent because, nothing to do with the United States.
You didn't gain anything from it.
it wasn't our freedom that you were saving.
It was just,
that I saw was okay,
Iraq wants to raise oil prices.
Kuwait wants to take Iraq out of the whole system,
by leaving them independent.
when Iraq, saw this, they said let's take over the country, which is a good idea,
Then the United States says, okay, oil prices are going to go up.
for example, they declared themselves an independent country with a president,
they kick everybody's ass.
the United States doesn't go in there
listen, they were, named an independent, state with a president and everything
we're not going to go into your country.
these countries here, which, are, like in NINETEEN EIGHTY FOUR,
have you ever read that book?
NINETEEN EIGHTY FOUR there are three big continents
there's just this area, around Egypt stuff,
that everybody's fighting over.
the problem that nobody's going to invade anybody else's boundaries.
their immediate boundaries. go straight into Russia because there invading their border,
all the other countries, you can fight about.
the thing that you're wasting so much money to send,
it's like how much money did the U S spend when they could have paid so much money for each barrel of oil that was being,
We'll probably never know how much it actually cost.
basically all based on oil because nobody
actually, for example, Brazil took over Surinam.
I don't think anybody would care.
that's something has been, very,
the thing every time that I see a war, I see myself on the front line, and on the other side I see myself again, and I've got to shoot myself,
I got to shoot somebody that's got the same family that I do. the same relationships that I do.
just because I was born here I've got to shoot them down.
it's never a pleasant thing,
that's true.
at least over quick
there weren't that many deaths.
the only problem the aftermath,
that you're having so many deaths in the border with, Turkey.
that's really unfortunate,
it really is.
I don't know if we stopped too soon,
I really don't know what we need to do about that.
something the U S did right which is okay,
let's kick him out of Kuwait, which was our basic goal.
indirectly let's try to overthrow him,
they're not going to do that directly.
the thing that, didn't go Iraq because they have the force to go in there and say get out of the country.
you can asylum here,
you can go there,
no way are you going to rule ever again.
I've been hearing some talk too of trying to bring Hussein up on, criminal charges.
I don't know if that will ever happen or not.
the thing that first of all to get him.
which is very difficult to do.
there's no way that you can get them, unless it's by force.
you can put him on trial.
Obviously, he's not going to turn himself in.
he'd rather commit suicide than turn himself in,
because it's there's no hope, like what Hitler did,
if you were going to put on trial you get to live the rest of your life, but where.
the thing that once you've done something wrong, which is natio ,
internationally recognized, then you're going to try to get out of it
no way,
especially since he's got inside Iraq for using, chemical weapons and stuff.
he sent planes over shoot the people down were on their way to Turkey.
He had a couple of them bombarded.
obviously human life means nothing to him.
he's got, millions of dollars,
I don't know if it was fifty billion or fifty million, which make any difference .
That's true.
Past a point it doesn't make any difference.
that's really, really unfortunate.
It really is.
we just put our goals in different, levels is
saying, it's
we need oil,
we need it desperately.
the other countries, have oil but not as big, they say, when the prices went up then they went down.
When they took that big dip it was because they discovered another big oil well somewhere in Saudi Arabia,
or something.
Seems the prices never go down to where they were originally, though, the increase started.
its an advantage.
it's like you're saying, okay, I can bring my prices up to a dollar fifty a gallon and I'm not going to bring them back down to, ninety nine cents.
because people are willing to pay a dollar fifty a gallon,
if I it at a dollar ten, people are still going to pay.
I went down forty cents,
I went up ten cents.
About the lowest I've seen gasoline in the Dallas area is, I guess, about ninety two point nine now.
Ninety eight?
Ninety two.
Here a dollar five.
there's still a lot of dollar five places here
you can find some that's under a dollar, but a whole lot.
That's the lowest I've seen.
still the,
have you ever checked, the most money makers nineteen, ninety.
you can see that,
Exxon and Amaco and other companies, God, I forgot their names, Exxon was the number one money maker,
that was just because the last quarter.
I think Mobil was doing very well, too.
assume all the brands are.
that was,
what other companies four hundred and some percent.
that's practically impossible to do now a days, for a company to,
That's true.
to shoot up in that way.
that's true.
it's just that, take advantage of that.
companies are saying we're trying not to raise our prices but we get a barrel coming in at more than what we're selling it for, we've got to raise our prices.
still if you realize that, one barrel has how much was it, forty gallons,
something like,
it's got forty gallons
they're selling,
you got to pay forty dollars at least and,
one gallon
selling at twenty five or something.
you're making, fifteen dollars profit, easily.
the expenses, of the war, who's gaining on this.
because, the U S government own any gas companies, gas stations and stuff?
don't know if the British government owns Shell.
I'm not sure about that.
I'm not sure either.
the thing is the U S government got nothing out of it.
Because, it's independent companies, the gas stations, they did.
then the taxes go up
then everybody else loses.
some things that might not be worth it.
that's true.
first of all people die before the war,
it's like transporting stuff and things like that,
before, it's
sure, a couple people that died there, their families don't feel it was necessary to do that.
dead's dead.
you could never bring them back.
That's true,
I don't guess we resolved anything
it's interesting.
nice talking to you.
To you too,
take care.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
All right,
think our experience of camping is,
am passive member,
I get things ready and then I enjoy.
husband is a good camper
he manages the troops
they do the work
I have fun .
family was up now,
how about when they were younger,
did you
That's when we camped the most.
I thinks it's a marvelous activity for younger families because,
would go through a period of time where I just, was really overworked,
getting out into nature and relaxing,
and having the family do a good share of the work,
the part that I did was more fun labor because they did running and toting chores and I just helped cook and kind of organize,
cooking over an open fire is a little more fun, isn't it.
It is,
isn't it.
It isn't.
Ha , what kinds of things have you tried?
Have you done, the big pot cooking?
it was really my ex who did the cooking back when we first started
we found that what was great handy things was this, hamburger helper.
Because all you needed was a big frying pan,
Big frying p ,
you dumped everything in together
it was enough for all
that's interesting.
interesting enough, the food part was kind of, important thing in our camping.
when my oldest son,
always at the beginning I did all the shopping and everything.
neat breakthrough was when my oldest son Mark took his, cooking merit badge in,
Mark was the kind of camper who ate beef stroganoff
he did it up really good .
after he took that merit badge, he did all the shopping and for it.
that's great.
a marvelous experience because after that, then all I had to do was, follow the instructions, and do.
we did a lot of interesting kinds of things
I would take corn bread and, cook a pan inside of a pan camp, stove.
it works real good.
It's like an oven.
Just a thing on it.
cooking was our secondary interest,
What did you like to do most?
really just commune with nature.
That's neat isn't it?
We started out,
we were living in Florida at the time
discovered that six people all going on vacation gets to be very, very expensive.
I agree.
my ex decided, we're going to try camping
she went out one day on the spur of the moment and bought a tent.
that's how we got started.
We did it for years and years,
in Florida, are there times of the year when it's very comfortable to camp or is it always kind of hot.
ye ,
yes and no.
kind of chilly it can get chilly.
there's really no time of the year that you can't go.
is that true?
in Texas now
you're in Texas,
I'm in Dallas.
we have not camped a great deal here because, a good share of the time in the Summer time, it's too hot really to be very comfortable camping.
it just depends on where you go,
for instance,
I gue ,
if you went down to the sea shore, it would be wonderful, a nice breeze blowing in from the water.
we have done that .
we camped mostly,
when the kids were little New Jersey, and
where abouts?
in, Allendale Waldwick,
it's just about twelve miles south of, the New York border.
we'd go up to the Adirondacks and camp
it was so, pick your own, blueberries and make blueberry pancakes for breakfast .
ye ,
I co ,
go ahead.
I come from up in that area,
I'm a New Yorker myself.
are you?
Where did you live?
A little town called Tuckaho, over by White Plains.
I know that.
I had a cousin who lived in White Plains,
neat area.
particularly neat area for camping because,
that I wouldn't know
I left there when I was quite young.
it is neat though because there are lots of lakes, fairly near by,
you don't have to go very far.
there's, a lot of trees, lot of mountains, and lot of, hiking sort of things
we had, sail boat.
we would sail did a lot of camping that way.
outgrew, sleeping bags and, tents,
I now have a motor home.
do you.
We've gotten out a time or two on a rented basis
it's fun, too, I think.
I live in mine.
Do you?
That's neat,
you kind of, an everyday camper .
I consider myself what they call a full timer.
A full time camper.
th ,
are you living alone now,
Ye ,
just me and my dog.
You and your dog, .
that sounds great.
camp quite as much as we used to,
I still think it's a great way to spend a time with your family,
and enjoy nature and, kind of wipe out the stress of everyday life.
I'd always,
Nothing like the fresh outdoors.
I'd always come home just relaxed and, comfortable and ready to go at it again,
it was a neat activity.
Good to talk to you.
Tell me your name again.
all right.
Are you, from Dallas too, Beth.
we've been here,
in Plano,
we've been here about, eighteen years.
how about that.
we're all, lots of people from T I up this way.
All right,
good to talk to you.
Nice talking to you too, Beth.
All right,
all right,
bye bye.
how do you feel about them?
I keep trying to get away from them,
I used to use a lot of credit cards
I guess for a while I would use, a variety of the Visa and the MasterCard and the stores,
I think impulse buy too much with them
I buy things, I see it on sale
I think, it's on sale I have to get it,
I really don't need it
I really haven't budgeted for it
the last couple of years I really have tried not to use them at all.
What about you?
we have this philosophy, we use it when we go off somewhere
we pay for it as soon as we come back,
as soon as we get our bills,
we pay it off.
we only have one.
We tore all the rest of them up.
, okay.
I don't like credit cards for one thing,
they're okay, I guess,
if you're on a trip or something,
you don't have to take a whole bunch of, cash with you,
I don't like using them because I've seen too many people that used them and ended up bankrupt or on,
chapter thirteen and stuff like that.
they have this weird opinion that if you use that card, you don't have to pay for it.
That's true
it's on the credit card it doesn't seem like it's money out of your pocket.
Sometimes you may think, I don't have the money so you use the credit card it's like fake money or something.
it gives you of security or something it seems like
you say, I don't have to pay for it now
you're going to have to pay for it,
it seems like ...
you think, I don't have it now but payday will come and then I'll have the money.
that's probably paying for things that were still owed from last time, .
Are you married?
I know that a lot of young people, I,
it took me a long time to get it through my child's head,
that was her goal, got to have a credit card,
now that she has one,
she's only used it one time
she wanted to establish some credit,
I think it finally sunk in, because she saw some of the other people and just she heard them say, I used a credit card.
my husband's sister is the world's worst at,
I'll just use the credit cards
she has all of her credit cards up to the limit.
thinking woman, , wake up and smell the roses before they come and get you.
Besides the fact that how much interest you pay and then this ...
people don't see that either.
this thing that you thought you got on sale, by the time you get done paying with that with all the finance charges because you pay it off over a long period of time,
you've spent a heck of a lot of money on that thing.
The only one that have that we kept was the Discover card,
it pays you to use it.
if you pay your bill off right away,
if you don't ever have to pay any interest on it because they give you a certain amount every time that you use it,
you make that money as long as you don't ever have to pay them any, interest.
Now it's,
people say, I'm making money by using this credit card,
they don't realize that if they,
it only takes one time for you to use it and not pay the interest,
you have to pay the interest, not pay it right off,
that's going to take up what you would have made.
that's the only reason that we kept that,
we debated for a long time
they don't have that, charge on it,
Service charge you mean?
Yearly fee,
They don't have one of those.
we decided that was it,
everybody calls us and wants to give us a credit card.
credit cards running down our ears.
you get that stuff in the mail all the time.
have, (( just )) , department stores.
They'll call me up,
I'll say,
look, I don't want the credit card,
we're just going to send it to you,
you don't have to ever use it if you don't want to.
(( They'll )) send me (( any )) credit card,
I tear it up.
I just can't see it.
What I really hate in the mail is
that they send you these things that look like checks,
they say, hey, two thousand dollars, free to you kind of thing,
all you got to do is go cash those things
you've got a short term loan.
I hate it, .
I know it,
you know what ...
I can't believe they have the nerve to do that.
What's really bad about those though is just
young people if they don't,
we take the time to, help my daughter,
she's in college,
is her first credit card thing,
when she got her first one she was so excited
it was unreal.
Look at this (( they )) sent me this money,
then when I explained to her, look you have to pay this back and they are going to charge you interest, (( and stuff )) ,
of course, she it up.
a lot of parents would not take the time,
they wouldn't even think of it
their kids may not be as close as my daughter
they may not even discuss it,
they go out and cash their check thinking that,
they've got something,
maybe they've won something.
somebody sent them something free.
go out and spend it.
it's just unreal.
I don't like credit cards,
I wish that they would come up with some other way to,
the only way you could use them is if you were, on vacation.
They would let you use it maybe once a year.
of course, I guess some people go out and spend their whole entire limit on it like that at that time
I have seen so many people
I have a friend right now she just got off of thirteen.
She got,
I can't remember what she called it,
it's some kind of,
maybe it's (( sure )) or something like that,
weird name of a credit card,
she is charging out of her mind already.
I'm going,
you just got off.
That's how you got on to it to start with, what is the matter with this person, .
it seems like think, I can just have anything I want.
I just don't see it like that.
Of course, I always (( see )) pay the bills first
whatever's leftover, that's what you have,
maybe a lot of people don't see it like that,
I can't stand owing.
I cannot fully tolerate to owe something like,
I guess it's just because I've been brought up like that.
I could not charge to the limit and knowing that I was going to have to pay this thing out for ever and maybe suffer from having to payout.
that's just the way I feel about it.
I think somewhat a, symptom of generation
we think we need all these things
I think my parents always, did without or saved up to, buy things
we consider that so many of these things we just have to have,
when I first got my apartment and I was setting it up I did try to economize some
I was just like, I have to have it all furnished I have to have all of my kitchen setup
you don't, do without too much
that's how I got started kind of with setting up a household all up, it kind of in the short amount of time.
you just have to have these things just, have them at home, have to have them at my own place
that's, a big expenditure to start, buying all these things that you think have to have
actually they're kind of luxuries
you should save up slowly and keep buying them and not just rush out and furnish the whole place,
(( going in )) one big swoop, save up and then buy it.
, yeah.
we're not into that.
We're into have to have it all now.
I guess it is like that though because it seems more and more people are like that.
I guess it's because I'm older,
I I'm not real old
I am older
I had to have everything.
I guess it was because,
I had everything when I was at home
don't know why I didn't.
we're geared to that.
like I want a living room set. And instead of sitting back going, okay, it's going to cost maybe a thousand dollars, two thousand dollars
I'll save for two years,
, huh.
people go, I'll just go on credit and they'll pay it off.
, yeah.
People (( aren't )) tuned in to saving for it and then buying it,
they just
and then pay off the bill because they want it now.
It's always have to have it now.
it didn't hurt you, did it, to,
you didn't go out and charge a whole bunch and lose everything, did you?
, no,
I have had some times when I've had some pretty good balances on there
I finally, paid them all off and thought this is, kind of nonsense.
we don't, have big balances on them at,
all now we,
I use it occasionally
I pay it right off.
We're ...
you learned then,
you learn hard way, you hate paying all that interest
I've never been one to itemize on my income, tax and never had enough to itemize
it's just a big chunk of money
you realize that you're not buying anything on sale your paying, so much more for that item, because you've got finance charge and the cost of having that card every year which is what, forty dollars sometimes just to have the card.
That's, a lot of money that you went to buy this item.
you never feel you've got anything into savings or anything,
you're always just
you don't feel that you have any extra to save.
living paycheck to paycheck.
I like to have a little there,
that I can, save
I can feel that, if something comes up I've got the money to pay for it, .
We're supposed to talk about the Middle East Crisis,
and should we be involved and, what's it going to cost us in the long run.
Are you ready?
I guess so.
The Middle East Crisis should we be there?
dear that's a hard one.
That's really hard for me because, have a son that's sixteen
I think, eventually, he'll be drafting age.
I think gosh, do I want him to go
yet I'm proud to be an American
I know that we have a country that, people would give anything to live in, a lot of people anyway because we have so many wonderful things that they don't have.
yet, I don't know whether I'd be willing to give his life this country
I know that I, that,
when I was in school it was always excuse that we went to war to save us against communism
I'm not sure that that's the reason anymore. not sure that communism as strong as it once was.
I'm not sure that's the reason why in Vietnam supposedly so.
you realize why we were in the Middle East. Why we invaded Iraq, why we were
with the,
in Saudi, why we attacked Kuwait and still fighting Iraq.
it's because of oil isn't it?
I really believe it's because,
I think it has something to do with oil, don't get me wrong.
a madman.
I agree with that.
Anyone that would use chemical weapons to fight his own people,
he's, a bad person, very definitely,
obviously, that has something to do with it.
I can see that he was in Kuwait
Kuwait was the nonaggressor
the Saudis are our allies.
We have several treaties and several alliances with the Saudis that range back for probably forty years.
many years.
they've been our through thick and thin.
were at the Saudi border.
And ready to storm into Saudi.
Shouldn't we try and help our friends?
that's thing, wonderfully supposedly
everything is
What did we lose,
we won.
forty one Americans,
what that wasn't the case.
What if we would have lost thousands of young men.
have been too much of a price to pay for that?
I don't know.
I think there are a lot of things that we don't know
of course,
the American people,
our government is full of liars, thieves, and crooks.
there's a lot,
that we,
our own fault because we elected them.
I think that's true
I think there's a lot that doesn't need to know.
I think there's some things we shouldn't know just for security sake.
think if we did know I think there would be a lot more chaos than there is because think people could handle it.
I think there are things that
I also agree that there are a lot of crooks and liars too.
I went on jury duty here not long back.
one of the guys that was on the jury they were asking him you could believe a lawyer or if a,
lawyer's reputation was so tainted that he couldn't be believed
one guy being selected snickered and couldn't keep his head up,
the guy said, can you share it with us find so funny?
He says, I already told you my sons a lawyer.
He said that when he graduated, the day after his bar examine
there in Houston.
He told him, Dad, how to tell when a lawyers lying to you?
His lips are moving.
my gosh .
ninety percent of all politicians,
and lawyers,
Have a lawyer background,
Have a law background,
you're right.
by definition all lawyers and politicians are liars.
The fact that they take our money and don't do what we think is right makes them thieves.
that's true.
that's true.
what's it going to cost us in the long run there in Saudi?
Are we going to lose more lives there?
I can't tell the future that's what scares me so much about it.
I thought the war was going to go on and on.
I really was surprised when it ended so quickly
we hit them with more in one month than we used in of Vietnam.
I know.
whenever you strike on open terrain with that sheer volume
there's nothing they can do about it.
it's not like we threw eight aircraft over there all by ourselves and said this is wrong.
We were there,
the Brits were there.
The French were there.
This is with U N backing
to some level even Russia was behind.
they were.
honestly if there a well perceived war, world wide this was it.
what I can't understand is then many of the Kuwaiti youth
It's okay for us to go extend our youth's lives like so much water in the desert.
it's not their job to fight for their own land.
yet, see that's another thing difficult for Americans,
their culture is so much different than ours,
I've heard from many people that we could not even to understand how they feel about things because their values and their perceptions are so much different than ours
they just don't think the same way we do.
Their culture is completely different and almost opposite.
really the Iraqi beliefs, if you will, are more similar to our own.
that's true.
the Kuwaitis aren't even helping rebuild their own country.
The Kuwaiti young won't rebuild anything.
They won't work.
I didn't realize that.
it was on the news last night.
my word.
The, U S Army is doing it all.
that's another question you have to ask, is this our job?
should we still be there even,
I don't know the answers to those questions.
I think they're tough
I think, it's,
I don't know that anybody knows the answers.
I think they know what they believe
I'm not sure they really are one hundred percent sure.
they talked to one Kuwaiti woman yesterday.
her biggest concern in life was that she couldn't get a housekeeper.
You're kidding.
That's unreal.
do you have a housekeeper?
No .
don't plan on having one either, ever.
I wouldn't mind having one.
I'd love to have one
I'd like to make sure that I have a job tomorrow first.
That's right.
That's right.
you realize that the Kuwaiti government gives every Kuwaiti man, woman, and child money.
aware of that,
For nothing.
For doing nothing,
doing nothing.
For sitting on there kiesters.
that ought to give their programming trouble shouldn't it?
they do nothing.
They hand them money each year
they're part of,
I'll let you go first.
I think, I don't know how your schools work back there
we support our schools here with property taxes.
the land owners or home owners are the ones that pay the school tax.
if you're renting a house or doing anything else, you're not actually contributing to the education of your children.
I think that's wrong,
I think everybody should contribute to the education of their children even if they had to raise the sales tax by one percent then everybody going through the state would be supporting our education system.
as it turns out, we don't really have a tremendous education system because they don't have the money they need to run it.
spent a couple, years down in, Plano, Texas.
I was one of the home owners down there that got taxed to death,
for the, Plano, school system.
know that Texas doesn't have a state tax,
all the things come out of property taxes,
I was, really shocked at the amount of taxes I ended up paying.
better off paying a state tax back in Maryland, where, ,
you would be.
than I was, paying the, property tax down there.
what they did in Maryland to get around that is developed a renters tax solely for the purpose of paying for the services,
that the renters were getting including the, educational services.
the tax was administered by, the, rental company that actually was managing the apartments
long, long time ago, when I used to live in apartments, I would pay a rent payment every month and a tax payment every month.
the tax payment went to pay for the services that I was getting as resident of that particular county.
that's the way it worked.
Here in Maryland a certain portion of property taxes, goes to education,
also a portion of the state tax that you pay goes back into the county that you live in, to pay for the educational system.
works out nice,
it makes it so that the, whole county now,
know the concept of counties in Texas is quite a bit different than it is here in Maryland,
like Collin County, would only equal about maybe an eighth the size of Baltimore County, here in Maryland.
counties are much larger.
in whole state of Maryland I believe there's only like, fifteen counties.
Gee whiz.
each county has their own school system it works out real nice.
flip side to this is, are we getting what we're paying for,
I don't believe so,
A lot of things have come to head recently
I heard a report because, of, the emphasis that the President was putting on education,
him running as our education president and then finally a couple of years later getting around to doing something.
they said since they imposed the federal regulations on education,
in other words, they came up with this federalized system where everyone in the third grade would be taught basically the same thing.
at the end of, school year they would be tested
they go into the fourth grade
everybody in the fourth grade's basically taught the same thing.
when they came up with nationwide system of public schools, they gave some figures out
since it's inception, they've, has been thirty three percent.
they're actually spending thirty three percent,
that's real dollars,
adjusting it back the days, when it started, probably, seventy years ago.
what they've said is that we haven't had a thirty three percent improvement in education.
We've actually gone backwards.
they say that Texas schools are some of the lowest in the nation.
That our high school graduates can't even match the national average.
our school system down here is no where near perfect
they keep complaining they don't have the money to do it.
been having some problems, even here in, Baltimore City which is, sized city.
they've been putting a lot of, stress on it
of course, speaking of stress the teachers are all getting stressed out from trying to, do everything they're supposed to do
of course they've, been cutting the teachers salaries,
because they say we don't have the money to do it
all the services are costing more money everything,
a lot of emphas , now is being put on, when children used to be taught, like, each child is individual,
they're not all the same
they need to take things at their own speed.
some students do horrible until eighth grade,
some do horrible, until they get to tenth grade,
all of a sudden everything clicks in,
there are some students that, read well at five years old,
and, seem to excel.
one of the things I heard proposed on, one of the public radio stations up here was that we should go back to teaching children at their own speed. Some ki ,
I think it'd be a lot better.*
each child has to learn at his own rate,
they can't keep force feeding things to each other and,
or, at the kids.
on top of that make the child feel inferior,
because he can't do it.
because he's not as good as another kid his same age.
it's not that he can't do it,
he just can't do it quite as fast,
have five children total,
I've got two out of the house already
two that are in, eighth grade this year.
All right.
prior to their,
were in elementary school they were as being slow.
they put them into special programs
we actually held them back in fourth grade.
it wasn't until the last two years,
last year my,
a set of twins,
a boy and a girl.
Last year boy twin started doing real well.
All right.
everything started to click in for him
he knew what he needed to do.
this year happened the daughter.
all right.
She just has been,
Jumped on out there.
really doing great this year
she has the right attitude towards school and everything.
That's good.
I think it's just a matter of everybody has to find their own path.
I remember when I was in school, I did horrible up until about,
I did too, up until ninth or tenth grade.
about the seventh, eighth grade
I started come around and realize
basically I got interested in math,
never really did well in english
once you got interested in something and things started to click in place then after that you take off.
when I was a kid growing up and going to high school if I wanted to take a little electronics course, I had a electronics course I could take,
we lived out in the country,
we didn't have all that fancy stuff to worry about,
we had our auto shop out there and our ag shop
we had just about every thing that we needed
they don't have it anymore.
There's a lot of things that they don't do in school anymore.
oldest boy goes to Lubbock High down here
they go to school four and half days a week,
That's pretty weird.
it is,
my children had a, real culture shock, when we lived in Plano,
I guess, I don't know if you've heard about the Plano school district,
academics there.
God, if your child is not an honor student, then, you're, something wrong with you as a parent.
kind of the way they are there.
when we moved back to Maryland, I moved to Baltimore County which is a northern county in Maryland,
it's basically a rural county, once you get above about the half way point.
we lived, in the northern part of the county.
we went from a, middle school in Texas that served fifty five square blocks to a, middle school in Maryland that served fifty five square miles.
it was just a complete culture shock,
I can imagine.
because I riding on the bus in the morning with, other kids that, are a sleep because they got up at three o'clock and were doing chores
that would be quite a shock.
they had, ag,
they had an ag course,
I forget what it was called,
it goes along lines of industrial arts,
it's, agricultural.
where they had to raise a small animal.
like, Four H then.
Had to learn how to drive a tractor.
All right.
They actually had to a driving test on the tractor,
they just couldn't believe this
it was great.
They loved it.
All right.
they really enjoyed the courses,
made school fun for them again because prior to that school was just a big pain, a drain.
just something you do everyday.
it was,
It was of the way we feel about going to work .
just something I have to do everyday.
up here they seem to have made it, a lot of fun for them
seem to really enjoy it.
That's good,
our oldest boy went into school politics and made vice ...
All right,
you have pets, I understand, a couple of them.
What are they?
I have, these,
I don't know if they consider themselves animals anymore.
They actually, sort of take over the place
we're kind of their pets.
Pets get like that don't they,
they think they own you .
Don't they really?
They own the place
naturally these are cats,
these are cats.
I remember one time, I used to get a chuckle Pogo.
That dates me quite a bit,
you probably don't know po ,
when Beauregard was talking he was the dog, remember.
he used to say, pets can be most as much trouble if they work at it a little bit, and even more when they work at it a little bit .
I agree,
(( )) .
I think that's true,
act ,
I, don't know,
I think that,
my husband and I are in such a situation that, I'm kind of, not able to do a lot,
kind of in a wheelchair,
I kind of am,
I've got these two cats that hang around with me all day,
Th , co ,
I don't what I'd do without them.
just good company, that's neat.
It is
it's funny how pets get to be so,
really do mourn them after, when things happen.
Now we don't actually have a pet right now.
D ,
we have had some
it's always hard for me to believe how close I've gotten to them.
We had a little, dog,
it was a little,
I got it so it shed,
one of these, French Poodle, a little French Poodle.
come down stairs in the morning to feed him,
I'd let him up out of the basement where he was sleeping
he would just dance around the floor
I just got,
we only had him about three or four weeks before he was hit by a car,
I cannot believe the whole family just,
he just got in us so quickly,
I could not believe it.
have to tell you about our most interesting pet, though.
we had an iguana living with us for about,
by choice?
about I guess.
It was
It was a beautiful animal,
name was Clyde.
Clyde the iguana.
Clyde the iguana.
my son Dan went Hawaii for the summer
when he came home, he didn't bring the iguana with him
for some reason or other he had a thing for them.
I don't know whether he'd,
I think there was one in the school, zoology department,
or biology department, one or the other, anyway,
anyway, went and found this guy Dallas somewhere who had picked up one in Mexico,
I don't know where.
anyway he brought this home
I looked at him
I said you've got to be kidding,
Yuck! .
I'm not going to live with a lizard .
you know I visualize that animal racing about,
you think of lizards doing but they don't do that.
They're very much
the thing about them is that they hold so still you don't notice that they're there
they move and about scares you to death sometimes.
Did you have him in a cage?
he had full run of the house.
He just loved to sit on the back of my dryer where came up out of the dryer,
really a neat pet
though I,
he'd ri ,
when we'd have family home evening and everybody would sit in the living room and the fire would be burning he'd walk across my feet sometimes .
was a long time before I could really pet him
I fed him
knew how to get me to feed him.
He'd come out to the kitchen,
just kind of look at me until I went and got him something out of the refrigerator.
you don't argue with an iguana, do you.
he was really a neat animal.
lay in Dan's lap,
just, when he'd pet him, he'd just stretch
you could see him just enjoying it like a cat does.
It was kind of interesting.
he did a lot of interesting things
Dan carried him around
he liked to ride on the back head, with his tail wrapped around his arm so he wouldn't fall off, scare everybody to death
kids loved him,
kids just loved him.
Kids just came from all over to come and see Clyde and visit with him
he tolerated them,
He'd even tolerate him petting though,
he didn't like them too at first,
got tame,
people could go in there.
Dan was a drummer,
didn't like very well was the drumming.
Was the drumming.
When Dan would drum he'd sit there and scrunch up,
he was trying to hi , ,
And cover his ears.
protect himself,
he'd leave the room .
Isn't that funny the way we put, human characteristics on an animal like that
they take on human characteristics like,
I guess they do.
our other animal,
the next year son Ken went to Hawaii
while Dan was in Hawaii, Ken decided he wanted a dog
looked around a long while
he found a Norwegian elkhound
he just brought this Norwegian elkhound an,
he was so funny.
for a while they built run for him out to the side of the house,
He'd been on the patio
they put the run out there,
he didn't like this run because there were no people that came by
sometimes he would just make a racket until you came and got him.
one night we'd forgotten to put water out for him
Hal and I were in bed
all of a sudden there was all this noise out to the side the house
he'd pick up his dish and throw it in the air .
(( He used a classic illusion )) .
And then bark and march around,
he'd pick up his dish again and throw it in the air until we came out and gave him some water.
I forgot to ask you, did the iguana catch flies for you?
Did what?
Did the iguana catch flies for you?
he didn't eat flies.
He didn't eat flies.
we fed him the outside leaves of lettuce,
I'd get lettuce at the store
he'd eat the outside leaves.
in the summertime you could put him out
he'd eat outside except you had to keep him away from the garden because he liked to eat the little peas as fast as they came up,
I bet .
a (( )) of things that were fresh sprigs,
he liked that.
can we ask you whatever happened to Clyde?
Dan went up to college up at (( Ricksun )) , Idaho he took him with him,
everybody was used to him
they just loved him and what not
put him out one day
Dan didn't know it
it got dark
he didn't get him in again.
they searched and searched and searched for him
it got too cold up there
died in a tree.
found him the next day in a tree,
to be pretty tender with them,
own heat lamp hot pad he laid on,
That was another funny thing,
he had a hot pad
burned up one time
boy, funny too, watching him kind of burned up
we got him a new one,
he had a blue one before
when we got him a new one it was brown
he wouldn't lay on it until we changed the covers.
he wouldn't lay on it.
because that was what he was used to.
a clean animal,
he went to the bathroom in the bathroom.
How did he do that?
some papers on the floor,
underneath the john
he went there to go to the bathroom.
You had to be sure you left the doors open,
he didn't like to go anywhere else,
scratch and do all kinds of things to get you to open the door, if you happened to close it on him or something,
even an accident or something,
if you just let it dry, it dries kind of like,
especially when he was inside and just eating lettuce, it dried up a little bit like ashes
you could just vacuum it up.
my goodness.
In the winter time there was to it.
in the summertime when he was outside and eating outside the smell was a little bit like a cat,
It's a different little things, t ,
a really interesting animal.
we just really (( ))
to this day I still miss him
that's been years ago.
I guess it's because you lived with, him
he was just,
overcame some fears to get used to him.
I think, I guess so.
it was interesting.
(( )) .
what do your cats do besides sitting and purring and letting you pet them .
my goodness, these guys, they,
actually they're my husband's pets.
you just kind of took them, over,
actually it's he's the cat person
always kind of nondescript in that category because I always liked dogs.
they've kind of taken over
A little bit easier to have cats in this kind of country, though isn't it,
Maybe it is,
they're so independent,
I think,
I'm glad we have two of them, otherwise, I think they get neurotic if there just one of them.
They get real crazy.
there, brother and sister from the same litter.
They look totally different,
they are Siamese cats,
pretty ones.
they're both registered,
one's a seal point,
she's the little girl
Newhart, .
he is something.
He's like a dog,
(( )) he just wants his belly scratched
that's it,
he's just the warmest thing in the wintertime,
ye ,
he just
they're like seven ye , ...
Tell me what books you read.
boy .
I haven't been doing a whole lot of reading for enjoyment lately.
I read, one book a friend recommended to me.
I can't even remember the guy's name.
It was a science fiction, Dean Cole, or something like that.
it was so frightening
it had so much violence in it
I just ,
could hardly stand it .
I try to avoid the,
. I didn't think it was so great.
She thought it was riveting,
I couldn't deal with that.
mostly I read,
I'm a marriage and family counselor
mostly I read things to do with raising kids,
now I have two little kids,
or co dependency, or, fifty thousand things like John Bradshaw's books on, THE FAMILY and
HOMECOMING and INNER CHILD, and so
I read usually that kind of stuff.
right now I'm reading, Judith Viorst's book called NECESSARY LOSSES, where she talks about different losses that we've had in our lives that we have to get past if we're going to mature and
spare time with a two and a half and a three and a half year old ,
read .
That does cut into your,
reading time a lot.
That's really changed my reading habits, because I used to read so much, especially when I was in school.
gosh getting pathetic now .
Well my,
I get through ,
my kids are up,
a magazine, I've been,
and out of the house now.
I will, encourage you that you do get to yourself later on .
Later you're,
won't say what.
probably looking for your kids
you can talk to them when they're out running around with friends .
What do you read?
I read for a living.
You do?
I'm an editor.
how interesting.
What kind of books?
at the
I read, psychology, sociology, anthropology, political science, philosophy, linguistics, history,
my goodness.
you name it.
I've read some of it.
that sounds like a fascinating job.
It really is.
it's a great place to be
it's nice to work with people , who are not required to use your services, and so therefore, are grateful and not arguing about them.
If they don't,
want an editor, they don't come .
That's true.
That's true.
you probably,
seem to remember that, little byline on a lot of things I've read.
is that,
do they have a mail kind of campaign that they send to professionals in the,
normally we don't publish, things under our own ,
That sounds so familiar.
we have books that are written here that are then published by all sorts of different, commercial and academic publishers and university presses.
I end up sometimes reading the things that are written here all the way through, sometimes just a few chapters because that's as far as they get .
I also get, of course, lots of references to neat stuff to read about.
just thinking when they told me the topic, read the, titles of the five books that are sitting on my desk right now that I'm in the middle of.
I'm reading, WITHIN THE PLANTATION HOUSEHOLD, which is a history, sort of a sociological history of southern women, black and white
living on plantations. *
that sounds interesting.
a book called POISONS OF THE PAST, which is about ergotisms, that, fungus that grows on rye
Oh .
it causes the, ,
I thought that was going to be some ,
Saint Anthony's Fire Disease, where,
people fell into fits
my goodness.
There is theory, at least, that a lot of people who were accused of witchcraft were actually under the influence of erga.
And a book called JOB CUES, GENDER CUES, which explains, how certain professions and vocations get, flip flopped from one gender predominance to the other,
started out all men and then in the nineteenth century, began to have women.
now it's practically all women.
(( that, )) ,
I bet that used to be mostly men who were secretaries of any type for business.
That's right.
thing that changed that was the manual typewriter.
It ,
then it became, you see, just sort of a clerical task.
When you wrote it out in long hand you were a,
Then you were important .
You were a confidential assistant to the,
the scribes who did the old documents, for churches and,
stu ,
that's interesting.
I've got a book called FASHIONS IN SCIENCE, which is a sociology that explains, why certain theories get to be popular in, sociology. And, how difficult it is to swim against the tide if you have a different idea that isn't vatted by your peers .
I have one novel that's called FIRST LIGHT,
that's about, archaeology
the British novel.
it's really quite interesting.
I haven't,
got too,
far into it yet.
are you reading these in the form of just like printed manuscripts,
those are,
that have not been pub ,
all books that are out, published and bound now.
they're just things,
that, (( )) , pertain to various things I'm working on or were, mentioned prominently and attracted my curiosity.
I got them out of the library and decided I'd read some more in them.
My goodness.
that's fascinating.
I read a lot of history and, a few novels, occasional mystery stories, just,
for fun.
I never have gotten into any of the romantic novels or any of that kind of stuff.
My husband reads a lot of the,
he did before we had kids ,
the STAR TREK, and all those kind of sci fi kinds of,
he's got collection of those.
my stuff revolves around, let's see,
I've got one called ONE THOUSAND PRACTICAL PARENTING TIPS,
which teaches you to put elastic instead of shoelaces,
in your kid's shoes .
a nifty idea.
I've done that to every pair my three year old has.
I think the,
the boom to parents and shoelace department was those little Velcro tabs .
I think that's incredibly (( )) .
there's a surprising number that are still around those,
that's an alternate means of dealing with ,
I'm trying to think of what else I've got.
since I'm, a therapist and all, I've done recently a lot of research into some of the twelve step groups.
I've got all the different alcoholics, what they call book, the big book,
and all the O A literature and all the (( CODA )) literature,
I'm trying to get with that because I refer clients and different groups
let's see ,
What do you think is,
I'm trying to think of the,
the most promising, or practical book, of that kind you've read recently?
have a love affair with John Bradshaw.
I just have found everything I've read of his to be fabulous,
he started out with one called THE FAMILY, which does the family systems and people's roles in the family.
he did, HEALING THE SHAME THAT BINDS YOU,
about how shame can just be so paralyzing and people isolate and withdraw.
third one that he came out with is now called HOMECOMING .
there's a subtitle to it,
I never can remember what it is.
It's something like, A JOURNEY YOUR INNER,
I knew,
CHILD or something like that.
his literary agent in Houston when she was just, convincing him to write all this down.
He was
he's just great.
now he's had the first one and the third one put into a ten session, P B S series.
one of those episodes on P B S.
from time to time out here, we have four different P B S channels that we can get on the cable .
they'll have all ten of those shown back to back,
I know .
in the middle of the night , for people can video tape them.
people can just tape them I guess,
I definitely have gotten a lot out of his lately .
He's just probably been one of the most,
there's an author Arizona, who used to be in Dallas.
It seems like we have a lot of these that have been in ,
Texas, called P M Melody, who does a lot of writing on co dependency.
she's got some fabulous workbooks out and a whole series of tapes and,
a workbook called BREAKING FREE, and just some real, helpful, practical things for co dependency.
that's been another one that I've thought was real helpful. other than that, my reading centers on PADDINGTON BEAR,
and WINNIE THE POOH,
and ,
DOCTOR SEUSS .
I really have enjoyed exploring children's literature because there's so much more, new things out that,
pull out the classics once in a while for my kids,
there's such cute things,
there's some,
out for kids.
absolutely wonderful illustrated,
I know.
children's books.
I just go to the library because expensive,
they go through them so fast,
really have been going to the library and getting my ten books out
they just love to sit and read.
now finally the littlest one is oldest sit, and watch the pictures instead of grabbing it and trying,
(( )) right.
to rip the pages out.
(( )) ,
has been fun to that D you,
know, go through the children's literature,
I read,
and, ,
THE PUBLISHER'S WEEKLY,
which lists all the
there are so many that look like they would just be absolutely wonderful.
I was tickled to see that some publisher is, reprinting James Thurber books for children. THE,
WONDERFUL O and THE THIRTEEN CLOCKS, that have been out of print for twenty years.
I'm going to have to,
look for those.
I had those for my kids
they really did,
enjoy them.
they were,
old copies then.
I didn't buy them when my kids were little.
they probably were out of print all of, already when my kids were small.
was really happy to see that,
I guess it's in honor of his hundredth,
I don ,
what thoughts do you have on the subject?
we even lived there for while when my husband was in the Navy.
you did?
In fact the first year we were married, he two years when we got married
we had a one year honeymoon.
That's wonderful.
it was very nice,
a different sense than I have.
I went to an inner city high school in Chicago.
that's not where I am originally from.
It was a divorce situation of my parents.
it was cultural shock to me.
I'm sure.
in terms of what I went through.
The high school (( Tulley )) High School
now it's called Roberto Clemente .
Roberto died while we were there as a matter of fact.
exactly, about twenty years now.
what was it like living there,
did you find that people appreciated having the privilege of being,
It's like anywhere else.
People are individuals
I find it really difficult frustrated trying to make stereotypes,
I agree with that,
can understand frustration you must have gone through, going to school,
didn't mean that in a totally negative sense.
it's just,
it's not part of your culture,
and you come upon something that you're totally unprepared for,
the firs ,
I had gone to a very, , conservative, college
when I started teaching school it was in an inner city situation,
although it was not Puerto Rican, it was, a Mexican American and black students.
They weren't like any of the Mexican American or black people I had gone to school with
it was,
that you had ever been.
it was very, very, different.
I'll give you and idea that I had,
appreciated what they were having in this country.
a lot of the ones that didn't in the minority, not in the sense of the cultural they made it worse for the other kids in school.
Chicago, back then, even had bilingual classes.
I had geometry,
the teacher was from Cypress Greece
it was, Spanish and English,
if you can imagine how I even go , ,
I guess I look at is as an enlightening sense.
they should leave things the way they are right now,
I don't really have enough in terms of an argument, pro or con in terms of making any type of change.
I'm not, so much against their making, it a state.
I would want a very clear majority,
if the minority can be so, vociferous, whether you're talking this group,
any other group has a stake in something.
that's exactly.
a few can make it miserable for everybody else.
that's exactly,
I can remember instances that, wasn't as, bad,
Lord, I don't know how it would be today.
I know what it looks like,
I've been back up for a reunion.
my give you a clue.
It does,
an experience I wouldn't change,
my husband, grew up in, a majority, WASP, southern Ohio,
when he saw where I, saw my later teenage years, he was just, I hate to say aghast, because that sounds so trite,
he was.
yet, how did I turn out the way I did turn out.
right. *
I said that's really irrelevant.
What you find is that, if you can talk to
I learned a lot about the, Island of Puerto Rico from talking to these kids.
I'm sure,
you lived there
you know that parts of it are beautiful and parts of it are squalor.
Same any other part of the world,
it's the same.
I don't think it's really to their best interests,
to, attain statehood as it is right now,
they have the best of both worlds.
They have, representation,
they don't have to pay all the taxes and so forth that we do.
This is true.
being that it's an island economy,
everything is imported
yes, the cost of living is super high,
they're protected in so many ways without having pay for the rights and privileges.
I know what you're saying,
th ,
would just as soon,
they voted independence, I would back them a hundred percent.
that's, guess, because I'm not into territorialism or whatever, that we have been in the past.
I probably would say the something if I knew that it was good
emotionally that the people there wanted it.
it's just,
now they have the privilege of voting with the United States, don't they.
They count, as a principle,
that's what I thought.
I've also been down there.
We traveled a lot to the B V I, the British Virgin Islands.
you always pass through San Juan in going to places like (( )) or (( )) .
I think what they do need is an infusion of some of the United States, privileges, some of our resources. The educational, the teachers, the,
academic opportunity,
I don't think we of a resource transfer, if there is such a thing.
Part of that though has been, I think, selected them,
in whereas they want the benefits what the continentals can offer,
they want to maintain that, culture of theirs,
I understand.
often bring in the advantages, the resources and so forth, is a trade.
They'll lose their ethnicity as they say,
Most of the people that I know about who really, would, statehood,
have pretty much assimilated into continental states already.
they have family here and this way they can go back and forth
it's not that much of a strain,
they're kind of lackadaisical about it.
At least at the present time.
That's the pendulum seems to be swinging, right now.
It sounds you probably know qui ,
to this day are you still in touch with any native Puerto Ricans that you have made friends with,
we really didn't keep that up,
it's just,
that's natural,
I just thought I'd ask that because I wondered what you thought they might think.
I really don't have any, personal or professional or familial ties down there.
I don't know, the, the, the people that I went to high school with, I think the majority are in probably the generation, yours and mine
the one right after us, parents did not want to acclimate to the United States.
in terms of retaining,
my background's European heritage
their background it would be, Latino heritage.
Not speaking in English, having the children drive them everywhere, these were not old people.
These were in their early forties.
bothered me
there were some children that I noticed as soon as all the kids were out of high school, they went back to Puerto Rico to live.
they had made enough money here.
th ,
on the other hand, I guess it's all about choice
in everything.
was it,
how were they toward,
that's interesting you used continentals, which I'm sure is the proper term.
How were they toward the United States in terms of just general, relationships,
were they glad?
There really were three major, camps,
there were those were very friendly, very open, any, anything we can do for you,
either way, was great.
there were those at the other end of the spectrum and those that, ho hum, whatever,
was interesting,
the whole time we were there it was very, very political.
There was always some, on Sunday afternoons, going through little urbanizations, the little neighborhoods with,
blow horns,
I can't think of the term
I know what you're talking about
And with banners a parade of vehicles colors of the,
of a particular party.
they were very, very, passionate,
about their beliefs
it kind of broke down that you couldn't really see,
I couldn't see that there was a clear majority stayed.
It seemed to shift
what you're describing is actually a conflict, very dif ,
I've got to go, because that's my cordless battery going.
I see,
okay .
I'm sorry .
I have enjoyed it.
I enjoyed talking to you
thank you for your time.
bye bye .
Bye bye.
I think health care is real important, and dental coverage,
I guess medical insurance is probably what I consider the second most important.
I agree on that.
it seems pa ,
compared to what is
versus what our health care is, our health care keeps increasing, increasing, increasing and not to the same rate as our pay .
I know
(( no matter what you do )) about that, unless you're a Senior V P or something which I am not .
Me either .
I know.
I don't know.
when you interview for a job or something sometimes people, expect the benefits to take the place of a certain salary level.
pay you X amount annually,
then ten percent to fifteen percent more are your benefits
if you're
are you married?
my husband works,
I do
I don't take some of,
I have certain things that I take,
he has other things he takes.
in that kind of situation it's really almost, redundant,
that some of the benefits, I would rather have, money.
Money instead.
more money, actually,
Or flex time or something that was a little more personal,
I feel the same way, actually.
we don't use any of T I s benefits other than buy bonds that's it
the medical insurance?
Not at all.
You use company's?
My husband's,
we use my husband's.
Where does he work if you don't mind me,
works for Bramalea Company,
they pay one hundred percent.
Yo ,
Not one dime is deducted from his check.
you're kidding.
What's the name of that company ?
What do they do?
It's a security company
and lease buildings.
Are they a big Company
actually they're from Canada.
They're Canada based.
probably cause has government run health care systems, social medicine.
you don't pay them. If you live there,
it's like Europe.
You don't pay a dime.
it's all taken care,
Sounds wonderful.
our prescriptions and everything, our visits to the doctor, our hospitalization,
the only thing we pay for is something happened, an emergency, and we had to have an ambulance,
it's twenty five dollars.
that's nothing.
if I were,
him, I'd tell him make sure he stays there.
T I was getting, for the both of us, it was seventy five dollars a month.
my goodness.
deducted for an H M O,
I don't work at T I.
My husband works at T I,
I work for E D S,
it's like,
they're both
basically, E D S is a little bit better than T I
we take his medical.
the medical terrible,
(( )) twenty,
getting ready to change it again for Aetna.
I don't know.
I just don't think companies, they want you to feel responsible and don't abuse the medical system
T I just did the thing where, with the smoking premiums.
We don't smoke,
know about the smoking premiums?
do you guys smoke?
We don't either.
Neither one of us do.
a lady in my office said, she said her husband works for T I, too.
she said what about the people that are walking around,
I hope,
sound you're in this category, but
for extremely obese people or something?*
The kind of people that can't sit in the chair,
who's going to croak first? The people that smoke or,
Seems like,
an unnecessary penalty,
I'm not all for smoking at all,
I just,
I don't how they can do it.
(( Carte blanket )) . *
You can't charge more for a person who's on a flight
just because they're larger. *
Or something.
I don't know.
That's why I'm not a boss, I guess .
I don't know,
type of benefits do they have that, Canadian based companies (( )) .
They have to be a little bit different than the American,
they are as far as their pension plans (( )) ,
they're vested a lot earlier.
I think at T I, it took five years.
T I is at least,
five years,
Five to seven.
they're vested after their first year.
my goodness.
they have the four one K and the
usual benefits like that,
That's kind of nice.
T I has that,
that's a pretty standard thing anymore.
husband's company probably matches more than T I, though.
they match the same amount.
they do (( )) ?
they match four percent which is the same,
it is.
fifty percent or four percent. *
That's still pretty good, though. the fact that your vested that quickly
in the pension.
I know,
E D S has eight years?
I think E D S has seven eight years.
it's like T I in that respect,
I'm working for a company that's making money .
E D S has a cash flow problem as they say but,
not E D S, T I,
don't know.
I think everywhere they just need to sit down and hire some people, the grunts, as I call them, like myself
to tell them,
I don't know,
if I were to rank them, I guess I would say next to income it's really just health benefits.
for most people I know it would be day care
T I has,
no day care.
a big issue
belong to a women's forum group.
some of the questions we're getting on site day care and things like that.
That they consider a very serious benefit.
I can't tell you anybody right now at T I that's, considering that.
I don't,
I would,
think so,
They should be though.
they really should because they're big enough,
the other thing I think is really good is that E D S is much better than T I at, I think, right now than, that we have day care, program
like T I has Texans?
it's developed as much as it could be for the size company as T I.
if you ever walked into E D S s health, corner court health clubs on site
and you walk into Spring Creek, Spring Creek's better than the one on Dallas Parkway
a lot better.
I mean, yeah.
E D S than Spring Creek?
Ye ,
it's really nice,
instead of six, treadmills, you've got twenty.
E D S can't even compare in size.
In terms of the number of employees.
don't know.
I guess it's just where E D S reimburses you for adoption.
I see.
T I doesn't have anything like that.
I guess wish the companies like T I and a lot of others were more progressive
in that respect
That's good.
fortunate benefit, that they're so active
for their employees.
some strange things.
they have very strange dress codes
you can't wear slacks at the corporate site and that kind of thing
unless you're in a, y ,
manufacturing environments because of the type of company it is.
I don't know.
guess I also wish that, companies would look more at cost of living increases
instead of just merit reviews.
Me, too.
Me, too,
with utilities homes that are,
price of homes have
went up
an average house is now a hundred and thirty thousand.
that is unreal,
I know.
because we've got people out here that are just poverty level.
then we've got these million dollar homes
I know.
where do you find a happy medium?
how does your salary deal,
with that?
It's not.
It's just not doing it.
I don't know how you and your husband are, too,
we have friends that laugh at us
we, I clip coupons.
I said, hey, I'll probably do this even if I'm a millionaire which I won't,
ever be.
you just can't,
it seems like every time you try to get ahead and take a vacation or something
the car insurance is due .
That's true.
That is exactly where we are.
(( It's so strange )) .
I know.
I don't know what we're going to do about,
Common problem.
(( )) .
want to rob a bank?
I didn't say that.
I didn't say that on this line.
I don't know.
What else about corporate benefits?
I can't think.
It's probably been too hot today for either of us to,
kind of nice to talk to somebody in Dallas.
Usually people are all over the country.
I think Dallas, as far as, economic uncertainty, is better than what most of the country is.
This is true.
better off than a lot of them.
that doesn't (( definitely )) make it any better.
No .
just something you have to keep telling yourself, that, that's what I want, that,
people are lucky to have jobs,
people are lucky to have any kind of benefits.
When you see people that don't have, anything but H M O s or, really can't even afford to get in a job that costs,
we had a guy fixing our air conditioner.
he said he didn't even make ten dollars an hour,
he has three kids.
I went, that has to be rough.
I don't know.
one thing I'd like to see, too, and don't know how T I is about this, but I'd like to see, employees rank and file be able to contribute more job.
Empowerment issues.
Right yeah,
that's a good word for it,
How is T I in that mode?
very well,
it's slow, though.
At least they're making the effort to put it out there and make it available and
and, cultural change within the management first.
now it's kind of filtering down to the peon level.
I think they're really trying.
It's going to take years, though.
that mind set,
(( All )) part of a good old boy network,
has to change,
E D S better,
they're a little bit too, stiff collared in terms of, what you want to do.
They're pretty much it in the hole,
They're kind of formula oriented.
Doesn't want to change.
you can't really argue with them because they've always been successful
what can you tell them ?
I guess that's what I know about benefits.
Okay. Yeah,
Okay ?
me, too.
talking to you.
Good talking to you
keep cool.
Bye Bye.
Bye Bye.
I guess my feelings are that, we almost have a universal health care system, to a great degree, except that now I read where we've left out about thirty four million people.
I don't know exactly how we're going to cover many of these people, because I'm sure that some of them have the wherewithal to do it themselves,
have a feeling, since I have just about as good a health care coverage that anybody can get, that this, then becomes an obligation of the government,
it's going to become an obligation of either state, local or federal government, anyway.
when people can't pay, they end up going to clinics or, to public hospitals, and that kind of thing,
it seems to me I'm paying anyway, because something, the bills seem inordinately high.
the reason that they're inordinately high is because that has,
to cover the costs for the indigent people who apparently
don't have the money or the wherewithal to do that.
It would seem to spread it out a little better if the employers who, employ these people, and pay them, subminimum wages or whatever,
were asked to their fair burden of this too, just as my employer is.
And myself, I guess.
that sounds like a good idea.
My only concern is what happens when you turn things over to the government,
I don't know .
Do they wind up with more red tape, and more problems then?
else is going to do this, then?
it's worked successfully in Europe.
I've heard all these stories about,
I travel extensively and spend, maybe half a year in Europe every year,
I find that the health care programs there, are administered a great deal of integrity,
people don't seem to be reluctant to use them to any degree.
As a matter of fact, if I'm injured or have an emergency when I'm, say in Germany or France, that, I'm automatically taken care of,
I don't even have to pay.
A ,
I think part of tremendous benefit of that is that there's so many people who wait now because they don't have the money, until, they have no preventative measures .
People, just go on and on and on.
so many people don't even get prenatal care
it just extends would be a minor problem to deal with if they had help available early on
becomes just this horrendous, burden on the taxpayers.
They're saying now that one out of every ten child born public hospitals is addicted to crack.
I know it.
I have a solution,
even though I'm rapidly approaching age when I'll qualify for Medicare and Medicaid,
my mother and father both,
my father's not living but my mother is,
they are, of an advanced years,
when I see the money that's poured drain on Medicare and Medicaid,
absolute uncontrollable situation that we find ourselves in,
the extraordinary amounts,
I know that,
those people vote,
they're the ones who get out and vote,
that's what's robbing a poor mother of the care.
The young people aren't getting the proper care that they need, and nutrition, I think,
we're spending on these and inordinately complex unnecessary tests in hospitals for older people.
it's unbelievable how much you go through.
When I just had a problem with my neck and they ended up doing a seven hundred dollar CAT scan, a chiropractor got it in one time ,
That's right,
it does,
it was just strange.
seem like we're, th ,
now I noticed just the other day in the paper not, just on cost, but on cost effectiveness.
I gue ,
that should help.
I don't know,
we'll see how that goes.
I think that was just a regulation that was up for comment,
we'll see what happens.
I see .
listen, I think exhausted my, self on,
at least I've blown off steam of the way I feel about it.
thank you.
Bye bye .
See you next time.
Bye. .
I know that,
I have only two or three favorite television shows.
I think one of my favorite then is from the guy Stephen, is it Brochco, who does L A LAW
he also did HILLSTREET BLUES.
I like those type of shows.
we really enjoy that too.
I don't get of T V.
We have a couple of young children,
we're usually outside,
it's usually the nine o'clock shows that if we get them in bed, we usually watch that,
L A LAW is one of my favorites.
me, too.
I know,
different than a lot of other shows of which they have the re runs in the middle of the season
towards the end when everybody else is showing reruns, they start showing some of their newer stuff.
I thought that was really interesting the way that they did that.
you must watch a lot of, Disney or cartoons then?
we have on SESAME STREET and MISTER ROGERS, that kind of stuff,
I think those programs are really good for children.
I know that both of mine have probably learned quite a bit from there.
It's kind of nice to know that they're just going to be seeing, not a lot of violence and that kind of stuff
they usually, show a lot of things that really teach them different things about the world.
My he's going to be five,
he's more into watching the cartoons and that kind of stuff now.
that's true,
that's true.
I noticed that, my kids are, older now,
getting close to the teenage years.
they did,
we watched all of MISTER ROGERS and everything,
even some of your, cartoons can be very violent
they talk about death,
we were watching, gosh, BUGS BUNNY just last night
I think it was on, I have to remember which channel,
anyway, we were watching that
it was talking about opera,
they showed what they thought an opera would be,
one of the things was to
I thought, how violent, to kill the rabbit.
he ended up killing the rabbit in the end,
then of course, the rabbit comes back to life and says, see this is how an opera is supposed to be.
I thought, gee whiz, if a little kid was watching this, that would be pretty violent even for a small child.
always talking about shooting and killing and all that kind of stuff
I don't think that they really realize that death is forever,
showing them something like that really doesn't
That's right.
teach them that it is.
That's right.
I don't think cartoons portray that
to get them to feel like that that's just pretend, I think
is the hardest part,
A cat has nine lives
they don't,
they just have one like we do .
that's really funny
we've gotten,
go ahead.
I was just going to say, I know that, at least before our kids were born, we used to always enjoy watching the COSBY SHOW,
Thursday nights usually had pretty good, and as far as very good comedy.
I like to watch DESIGNING WOMEN if the kids
are in bed by then.
that's true,
that's a good show.
I used to watch, DALLAS.
know where you're at *
in Dallas.
I used to watch DALLAS, years ago.
somewhere in the middle I got, bored,
didn't even watch the finale.
that's about how disinterested I had become.
I did watch it just to see what it was
it wasn't really that great.
actual ,
I think,
after a while, no new stuff they can do,
they've done everything dirty in the book
I know,
I know.
Was it actually based on a book?
I imagine,
you were just talking about,
Everything you could think of,
had a hard time,
I think maybe with DALLAS, as far as, they lost a lot of characters that had been around at the first.
That's true,
that's true.
I don't know,
I never watched KNOTS LANDING,
I think they've had a lot of their characters stay around.
if you notice on DALLAS, they lost all the women.
the men mainly stayed
the women were the ones who left,
I thought that was very interesting and about that.
anyway that's a whole new issue .
. Oh.
Anyway. I don't know if our five minutes are over yet .
also have the paid, television channels.
the only thing I don't like about it, especially with teenagers, is violence, the sex, the nudity and the curse words
I know they didn't pick up these curse words from me.
they had to have picked them up from, the T V.
One nice thing though about the cable company we use, that little parental, key,
Where you can lock up,
the channel or whatever?
have that at home,
I keep the keys with me.
that's about the only way do it.
their natural curiosity, to go towards that way and want
I don't know the way the generations are growing up now,
I just think they watch so much more T V.
I try to limit what they watch.
They aren't sitting in the house watching T V all day
because I think it's good for them have physical activity and that kind of stuff, too.
especially in the summer time we aren't in the house very much in the evenings.
It's the only cool time to be outside .
That's true,
here lately it hasn't been that cool anyway with the humidity being so high.
it was nice talking to you.
it was nice talking to you, too.
talk with you later.
Good bye.
Good bye.
this something that concerns you?
I think it does, especially because I just moved to Massachusetts and, they're having real problems because they have so many, police layoffs.
personally I don't live in a real bad section of town
just because of the general area I live in, the insurance rates are real high on your car
there's a lot of within a few miles of me .
Right .
How about you?
I live outside of Dallas
it's kind of in a little suburb.
I feel pretty safe out here
I know the murder rate is going up every year
in Dallas
that worries me.
I recently moved here
when I was looking for a job there was a lot of openings right worst areas of town
my husband,
what concerns were
not that I think you'll get involved in anything but it just be an innocent bystander, just to be in that location
I thought how sad it was
just to be in a wrong location at the wrong time
a lot of kids, are caught that way.
there's a little boy just got shot and killed last weekend down in what they call the projects, which is
sort of a bad area.
he was just out riding his Big Wheel
a couple of drug people got into a fight with a gun
he got hit and killed by a stray bullet.
that ex ,
That's really sad.
it must be frus ,
exactly what happened down here.
frustrating for the parents who can't get out of a situation like that.
It'd be so scary.
I know they asked in the topic for ideas on how to control crime
it doesn't seem anything is working .
It really doesn't,
it's kind of scary.
laws have gotten so lenient,
the court systems are too lenient.
I think that's part of the problem.
on the other hand they have to be because the jails are full.
have any room to put anybody
a lot of people just get out, back on the streets because keep that many people in the buildings they have.
they do that here, too.
I say, they commit crimes let them be overcrowded,
let them suffer a little bit.
I know it,
they have all sorts rights, that, are questionable.
Maybe they gave up that right when they committed the crimes.
I think so.
I think if they knew it was going to be really horrible, wherever they were going, maybe they'd think twice about doing it.
That's true,
maybe the punishment should be more severe.
the other thing that worries about it is, kids that are doing such bad crimes so young, eleven and twelve and thirteen year olds that just go out and kill
I know it.
I don't know if that's just a symptom of society and the breakdown of family and everything
that worries me,
I wonder
what the next generation will be like.
they get involved in things so young that they don't really,
realize what they're involved in.
some people prey on that,
they'll take, kids who don't really realize the seriousness even at fifteen.
And, get them involved in things because,
I don't know,
I was watching T V,
I don't know how true those can be,
got all sorts of kids under eighteen to do it by telling them, you won't have a record because you're under eighteen.
They'd steal cars and everything.
I guess if they had,
more of a deterrent, if they had more severe punishments it might be,
the courts are so backlogged right now it takes forever just to go to trial.
Seems like if they had consequences to their actions it would sink in faster .
I think it would concern me even more if I had children, which I don't,
if I had children I wouldn't know where to raise them
to protect them.
it seems now, even in the country, you hear about bad things happening.
It's true,
they talk about too, the gangs spreading,
everybody thinks of them only in L A and New York
they spread out to cover more area
I don't know, gangs occur much down in Texas. Do they?
I think they have them in Dallas because I hear them talking about in the schools, different things happening,
they've had some drive by shootings outside of the schools.
the same in some of the areas around here
that I knew had anything to do with it.
Me either .
Or seen anybody,
that's a scary thing too because at that age kids want so much to belong to a group.
I think that a lot of people that sort of doing are older, business, trying control whatever.
seemed in the fifties when gangs were big
it was just to be part of the gang
now they're so much into selling drugs
and weapons and all that,
it's pretty scary.
It's true.
that people have are,
some people better than the military or the same as the military.
I don't know where they get them .
those machine guns and all that.
that's scary.
It's a wonder there's anybody who's willing to be a policeman anymore.
That's the other thing,
hard to even,
I can't even think of what the benefits of the job would really be.
Especially if you're an inner city, you can't really feel you're putting much of a dent in what's going on.
you're putting your life on line everyday.
that they can't hire anymore policemen
they keep losing them all the time
eventually we're going to be way short on the number we need because
they won't let them hire any new ones
they keep leaving.
I just read an article yesterday, where this, what used to be a nice town in this area, they had a lot of budget cutbacks.
Massachusetts is broke right now
a lot of the towns are declaring bankruptcy
they had to cut twenty guys from their forces
the crime wave rate went up almost instantly because it was so well publicized that everybody in the area knew that town wouldn't be patrolled as well.
it's like ,
, they figure, what a heyday, .
This is a depressing conversation though .
It really is .
there's someone at the door
I guess I'll have to go see what my dog is barking about.
it was nice talking to you .
I hope things look up .
same for you.
Bye bye.
Where have you been on a wonderful vacation?
normally when we go on vacation we go home, to Colorado.
that's where we go home, too.
Colorado Springs is where we're from.
That's where we go.
How funny.
my husband's family lives just off of Academy Boulevard at Maize land.
We live Lake, in the Broadmoor area
that's where are.
we've been there.
We haven't skied at Broadmoor.
We went there last year at Christmas time
it was twenty seven below.
we had to cancel our ski lessons .
as of you can't even ski there anymore.
they closed it down.
just this year?
they don't have enough money
to keep it going,
it pay.
that wouldn't be a good spot to go on a vacation, now
if you were a skier.
I don't know.
Now Colorado Springs is real accessible to Lake Breckenridge
it's only a couple of hours away.
too bad if you want to go skiing somewhere else.
you ski up there any more.
I'd like to go on vacation.
my husband and I want to go to Florida
to go to Disney World,
we have two little ones
that are under two right now,
we want to wait until they're a little bit older
to do that,
we went on a family cruise last year, on the Premier Family Cruise Line
we went to Disney.
It was all part of the package.
on the cruise ship they had Mickey and Minnie and Chip and Dale and Goofy and Donald Duck,
it was really oriented toward little kids.
how fun.
the kids could eat with Chip and Dale,
it was just a lot of fun.
I bet.
then we were on the cruise for days in the Bahamas,
landed at Cape Canaveral and then drove over to Orlando and spent four days at Disney.
that sounds pretty,
that was the way to travel.
that sounds pretty good.
it was all a big package deal
where you just pay one price
That's right.
and get everything?
That's right,
kids are really cheaper, too.
We really lucked out because the ship we were supposed to be on developed engine trouble two days before our cruise,
they said we could either cancel, reschedule, or take whatever was available.
we took whatever was available,
we left a day early,
they put us up at the Cocoa Beach Hilton,
the ship that was available, the only, rooms that hadn't been booked were the suites.
we got the suites at the same price as a regular cabin.
what a deal.
then our cruise was actually extended a day,
our Disney was extended a day,
we turned a seven day trip into ten
they paid for everything.
that's great.
that was a wonderful vacation.
I bet.
That sounds like the way I'd want to do it
I think.
what kind of things do you like to do when you go to Colorado?
we like to ski, of course,
we spend so much time with our families
and seeing our friends,
because we moved to Texas about two years ago. So when we go back we are just jam packed full of people to see and things to do
get a lot of time to just vacation.
We did, last year, though, go to San Antonio for Memorial Day
which was fun just to get to kind of walk around
and see the sights down there and do that kind of thing.
than that, both my kids being under two, it's real hard
to do kind of
That would be,
events that,
require as much,
I know,
I think one of the places I always hit in Colorado, is that current outlet store.
. That's
That's what,
you should mention that,
I just got my catalog this morning and was looking through it.
with the Santa Claus on the cover.
I've already ordered from that one,
we will probably be going up at Thanksgiving this year,
what state are you in?
you're in Texas.
I'm in the Dallas area.
So am I.
In Plano.
I'm in Garland.
that's not too far.
I talked to somebody from Wisconsin or something the other day.
I guess they get people from all over.
driving for Thanksgiving, that's going to be quite a drive for,
it was when we left last year.
We left on the eighteenth, right before that big snow storm hit Colorado
we pulled in just as it hit.
how do you go?
Do you go up through the Raton Pass, when you go up there?
Ret ,
wait a minute,
we do,
we do.
That's on Route two eighty seven or something like that.
we go straight up through Trinidad
and straight up I Twenty five from there.
we, went a different way when we went last Christmas because of bad weather and because we were pulling a little U Haul trailer,
because we had to take our dog in the car, there was no room for luggage.
we went all interstate.
We went up, through Oklahoma City
and then up through, Kansas, and then turned left and went in on I Seventy
it wound up only taking us about an extra hour.
It was a little more mile wise
because you could go sixty five miles an hour on the,
All set.
Actually I'm in Plano, too .
That's okay.
I say Dallas area when I'm talking to people elsewhere.
That's okay,
it's more, concentrated, so they know where you are.
anyway, I know Plano some of the things that we do are, Kroger
some of the other stores, too, have said, If you bring your bags back the store to recycle, then they'll pay you a certain amount of money,
that's one thing that started in the community.
They actually pay you money for that?
Brookshires up in Allen, you bring the plastic bags back or the paper bags, you put them in the receptacles there,
I didn't realize some people are actually paying you for that.
I know Kroger will do it,
I think Albertson's does it sometimes,
I'm not sure.
yet, I know that, some of the stores will actually help the community, not pay you the money back, but will pay community, like through the schools
or things like that.
that's always helpful,
I know that the can, different can banks around the city
that you can go to and do that.
one of the ways,
I don't know, if this would be helpful.
It said on computer, what do I think would be helpful.
I don't know if it would be helpful or not,
I know on Monday, garbage men pick up just, any limbs or any extra trash that you might have,
that might be an extra day to put out things that might be recycled if we had certain colored can to put them in or something in the city to put, either glass or newspapers or whatever.
I think they already do that out East.
remember, Okay, today's glass
okay tomorrow's plastic, and all that
I think that's the way we need to go.
pretty bad.
All these years we've
especially in this country, all plastic and the paper and everything, we just used to throw out.
I know getting a newspaper everyday, I know I could just, do that
because I have to pick it up,
it just goes out with our trash,
I guess I'm not as, recycling minded as I should be ,
that goes out with the trash,
it really could be recycled.
about six months ago I started
Did you?
Tell me.
what I do is,
it's not bad,
you just have to have a place to keep everything,
you'll be amazed if you ever start doing it.
Just put your paper in the same place every day,
it'll start stacking up.
Take your glass, pickle jars, whatever, liquid jars,
just rinse them out a little bit
put them all in a place,
and, plastics,
Don't you have to take labels off of those jars?
from what I understand, you can leave the labels on, although I them off.
scrub them or anything,
I just tear them off
Take them off,
throw the lids and everything out,
put all the glass in one place, and plastics, like milk jugs, orange juice jugs, things like that.
both liter sodas
can you do that.
those also.
and then, of course, cans, coke cans, whatever.
I haven't been down to the recycling center yet to find out exactly what they need or what they take, and all that,
I've just read a lot about it,
I'm keeping these big piles of it right now ,
I going to try to dump it out this weekend in fact.
you'd be amazed how quickly (( )) it all stacks up.
There's a lot that we throw out.
know with our family that we could really be helpful if we could find a way to just, get it into different categories like that,
don't know what it would take get my children to start working on it.
I have two older ones that probably would go along with if I had it arranged so that it wasn't a big project,
not a big deal.
You get used to it.
let me tell you one interesting thing
when I went back to the store, and I said, Hey, I understand you all are taking these bags back, what do you do with them.
they told me, they look through them all and throw out the ones that don't belong there and then, go and recycle the rest.
I said, What do you mean the ones that don't belong there?
they said, people come in and put anything in the receptacles.
what I found out is, if you look at the bottom of those bags, Kroger or whatever
the plastic ones, they've got numbers on them.
if it's got the little recycle symbol inside it it's got a number, like bags from Drug Emporium have a ...
it took forever to find somebody.
I'm glad you found me.
I guess we have to,
talk about credit cards.
My name is Carolyn.
if you're ready, then
I'll just let you start,
I'll press one .
I'm not,
this is kind of an interesting subject to come up for me, because credit cards are my downfall.
I just find it so easy charge something when I don't have the money to pay for it,
I'm really trying to get out of that habit.
I think they're kind of dangerous.
I think they are, too.
unfortunately, all the time,
we use them like at Christmas time,
it seems like it takes all year to pay them off when you use them like that .
I would love to just take some scissors and cut them in half.
me too.
I think sometimes when you look at the interest that you're paying on them, that's what gets to be the really scary part, if you think, when it comes around to income tax time, and you look at how much money you paid out just in interest all year,
you could really get a lot more stuff
if you were just able to pay outright for it.
that's true,
that's true.
Seems just like our society hard for, you can have it, and then no interest, no payments for a year, and stuff this,
they're really trying to get you into that situation, because they know they've really got you
That's right.*
all I know is some of my credit cards,
we have a Sears one,
we always get a maintenance agreement every year
it's just easier to say, just put that on my credit card.
that's probably four or five hundred dollars, that goes on at that point
it seems like takes forever to pay that off.
It's funny, that we've got a Sears card, and we bought a washer and dryer on it, four years ago, and we still owe.
think like half the amount that they cost in the first place.
It's just, you get it out,
now that's real irritating.
It sure is.
We eventually did,
one time we just a personal loan and paid off all our credit cards,
the interest on the loan was cheaper
than it was, to just have that.
We haven't done it lately.
We probably need to do it again.
we did,
one time, we wanted to buy
we went down to the bank,
they said, Sure we'll give you a personal loan.
It was only a thousand dollars that we needed
for the truck.
they said, sure that's no problem, but, why don't we consolidate your bills,
at the time we thought, that would be great, we could,
it's going to be a lower payment than it was for all of them,
you only have to write one check a month, not all those.
You never miss one or whatever
we did that,
we didn't realize at the time, until several months later, that were real,
this was ago,
we were pretty young
we were just kind of
I guess that means these credit cards are closed,
we didn't,
about six months later we realized we could use them,
we charged them all up again.
then we were not only paying those bills regular like we were before, but also adding the lower payment for all of them, .
we were paying
we didn't ever make that mistake again, luckily .
we're definitely working on not doing that credit thing.
We just,
as a matter of fact, real interesting the subjects I get.
They always seem to be so pertinent.
we just discussed this last night at church, talking about debt and things like that.
It's alluring, and
so easy to get,
I know,
they really encourage you not to go into debt for anything except for maybe your house and
your car.
if you could stick to that, we'd get rid of a lot of indigestion and
everything else.
That's true.
I just picked up my daughter
she was eating a cupcake and now her crumbs all over.
What a mess you are.
I don't know, just feel kind of.
My big thing was my husband really wanted to get rid of our Visa card,
I just thought, if we ever had something go wrong with our refrigerator or something,
and we buy one, then we would really need that,
he said, Okay we'll keep it,
then we weren't smart enough to not use it,
one thing you might do with, in a situation like that, though, it's just keep,
you're into microwave cooking.
so easy nowadays,
it's, especially when people are working just to come home and pop something into the microwave
it be ready in just a few minutes .
(( )) , yes,
that's what we all are looking for, isn't it,
something that we can just cook in a hurry after we get off work.
I've gotten in the habit of cooking something big on the weekends so that I have leftovers all week.
All week.
we've done that, too.
There's just my husband and I,
sometimes makes a huge spaghetti
we're eating it for a week and a half,
I kind of get sick of it after he (( )) .
I know.
I try not to make too much.
It's just my husband and I, too
I try not to make so much that it lasts more than that week
I usually, I usually like to make spaghetti or soup or chili or, something like that
or sometimes a roast,
What's your favorite thing to cook if you're having a dinner party?
I have a great recipe for sour cream chicken enchiladas
really good,
I got it from a friend of mine that I used to work with
every time I've served it, everybody just loves it.
that sounds delicious.
one of my favorite things to make.
What about you?
end up with an old stand by that we call Russian chicken, because it's so easy
it go ,
you have to cook very little to go with it, just some rice and some salad
that's about it,
what do you put in it?
your boneless chicken breasts
you take and make dressing out of, Russian dressing, one bottle of that
and a package of Lipton Onion Soup mix
and three ounces of apricot preserves
that sounds good.
you mix it up,
you just put it on the top of the chicken,
I cover the pan with foil and put it in the oven for about an hour
I take the foil off and let it brown
takes about another twenty minutes
it's delicious
that sounds good.
it's so simple, because I can pop it in when I come in the door, and then, go about my business,
by the time I've got everything else ready, the
Is done,
that's a real easy thing for me.
that sounds good, too.
I've got great recipe for cheese cake.
I don't know if you get SOUTHERN LIVING,
(( ))
I don't,
my mom gets that,
they have one,
if you like to cook, they have,
every recipe I've tried out of that has been a really good one
every month they've got all different kinds of recipes,
I got one in there about a year or so ago on cheese cake,
it's just a regular cheese cake,
you can put raspberry, topping on it
inside the cheese cake, recipe you put, lemon peel and orange peel
it's just enough to taste it, when you're eating the cheese cake,
it is wonderful,
it takes a long time, because you have to cook it for forty five minutes, and then you turn the oven off, and you leave it in the oven for another forty five minutes
and then you open up the oven door and leave it in for another forty five minutes
my goodness.
and then you're supposed to, I think, chill it to room temperature
sometimes I'll do that overnight, and then put the topping on the next day,
very good.
I love cheese cake.
I have never been, I don't know, the ones
that well with.
I like a baked cheese cake,
I don't,
I have had a recipe that someone has given me that it's kind of like you just mix cream cheese and stuff
and refrigerate it,
that's not the same as New York style
No ,
it's not.
cheese cake.
the recipes that I've used,
everybody will say, this is real simple,
I make it,
really not very good
yours sounds good.
I bet that lemon and orange peel gives it a little bit of tartness.
It does,
it is really good.
that sounds interesting,
there's your good dessert for your dinner party.
Right .
Are you into serving wines with your dinner party?
I'm not a wine connoisseur by any means.
Me, either.
I wish I knew more about it.
I've been to, some wine tastings up in Napa Valley
I learned a little bit about them then,
what would be fun, they have some of those classes you can take
They would be, if you just had time to do it.
there's places,
do you live in Dallas
there's places here that, offer,
I think it's once a month,
you can go to a particular restaurant or whatever,
you can kind of take a cooking class
you get to eat everything afterwards,
they also go into the wines,
how neat.
to serve with, different types of
of meals and that kind of thing,
it sounds like it's a lot of fun.
have some friends done that,
they've really enjoyed it.
I didn't even know they were offering that.
I guess I,
this place is called Medina's or
Messina's Kitchen or something like that.
I bet that would be a fun thing to do.
sounds it,
my kids both in college,
a fairly active part in helping them decide where to go.
On the other hand, they really decided themselves.
kind of experience did you have?
one girl went state and has graduated,
her choice pretty much where she wanted to go
I have, state, both in Missouri,
I teach, in a college,
had heard me talk about it, and for years, that I didn't think it really made too much difference where they went for their undergraduate.
so, that was
pretty much,
I see,
I'm wrong,
I think it makes a big difference in terms of finding a school that is sort of right for the child in terms of his or her happiness and,
content there,
and, and the appropriate support environment and things like that.
as far as the education, as far as looking at the degree at the end, very little difference is paid
to it, where you get that bachelor's.
if it's a halfway decent school
they should be happy naturally,
if they can get, two out of,
let's see, my son got a full total scholarships
plenty of scholarships out there,
people should be advised to look for those,
you play strong role in helping them pick schools
did you just sort of say listen to your guidance counselors
my son was a, graduated from a Jesuit high school
was pretty much looking for a Jesuit university,
that was limited to five or six different places
he's in Saint Louis U,
I guess I played a role in that.
just sort of, let them,
they'd all been,
pretty efficient as far as studies
I didn't have that much to do,
they just,
they just knew they wanted to go to college,
I, helped them get there as far as
traveling with them to look at different
We did do that,
I would suggest a person always goes and looks at the school before they sign up.
I think that's a great idea,
Some people don't do it,
they get there and hate it, or whatever,
if it's possible.
expensive at the time you're doing it, the
compared to total decision it's nothing.
I think in the short run it is expensive.
In the long run it's very, reasonable
if the person,
my daughter has been Missouri for a second year,
now she's coming home at the end of the semester
she's already twenty one.
She started late.
that's, strictly up to her,
she'll and then decide what she's going to do next year.
It'll save me a lot of money because I'm not going to have to pay out of state tuition
again, that's her decision
I have so many students in my classes that have dropped out and come back,
they're much better students at twenty five, twenty six, may, twenty eight.
pushed them.
I just say that education is important, you should do it,
they have to do the work
to this visiting thing,
I found that my kids had no conception what college was really like
that the process of going around to a few schools with them really helped them understand
being able to go with them to of them
I think so.
gave me a chance to explain things to them in reference to what we had seen.
also I'm opposed size.
They've just gotten so huge,
my daughter first looked at a place that was forty thousand,
see that's just too many.
Good grief .
Ended up going to where I used to go,
that was twenty five hundred when I went there,
it's twenty one thousand, now
it's too big.
Good grief.
What is twenty one thousand?
What school is that?
It's Southwest Missouri State University
it was twenty five hundred when I went there forty years ago,
my son's in a school about seven thousand,
not bad
I teach in a school about eight thousand,
even a little large
it's much better than twenty one thousand.
they do have to visit, the parent can point out all the different places to look for
for scholarships,
those rating,
the magazines and all those things are doing the ratings now and everything,
I don't think it hurts to look at them
I don't put that much stock in them,
probably fine just to compare.
Helps to at least set up
range of things to look at.
If need to,
who do you like? .
What kind do I like?
I like just about any kind except country and western.
that's the
course country
western even I've gotten a little bit used to because it's not like it used to be.
Clint Black, he's pretty good,
who's the other big guy?
in Oklahoma we say Garth Brooks .
Garth Brooks,
the other guy I was thinking of was Garth Brooks.
in fact I think both of them have performed here.
Kenny Rogers, he's kind of country verge,
on the verge of country western.
Of course, Garth Brooks lives about,
home town is about, fifteen minutes away
a home boy .
then, of course you like him.
That's great.
I have teen age children,
I'm, hear rock music, not the hard rock, but the, Michael Bolton type stuff.
He's my personal favorite.
My son is, twenty eight,
real unusual in that,
he likes a little bit of every kind.
He likes jazz
that's good.
and, blues course the rock
can't say he's real crazy about elevator music, as he calls it.
I don't, actually, we don't listen to any elevator music at my house.
I've got teenagers,
my teenagers are all gone.
I can listen to any music I want to .
that's good,
home alone, which isn't too often, our Public Radio Station has wonderful classical music.
It's just very wonderful. Soothing, and, lot of symphonies
love that,
that's probably my all time favorite.
we can have music in the classroom,
can't be the rock or anything like that
find that the classical music is very good for the kids too, it doesn't disturb them
yet it
stimulates them,
What do you teach, what grade?
it's through twelve
Good for you.
A certain subject?
it's, business technology.
Good for you.
I was just sitting here while she was trying to find, another caller, F
I was reading
husband and I are taking a computer class at our junior college .
it's pretty good,
it's just a real basic class,
we're learning a lot,
we have a home computer,
very interesting.
I'd learn it too.
music, though.
the subject of music .
do you play any instruments?
I took lessons for thirteen years,
right now my nine year old is taking piano,
I just got a whole mess of music,
play the, volunteer to play the piano at the children's Christmas program for the whole grade school, which is K through six
you took on a,
five hundred kids.
good job.
I did it last year,
just sub at the school,
I don't want to work full time,
I just sub at the school,
that's kind of my volunteer thing,
it's really neat,
my older daughter plays the saxophone,
my next son plays the drums,
my third son just started baritone this year,
my little girl will start French horn next year,
my son played the sax and drums, my daughter the piano, organ and French horn.
French horn is absolutely wonderful instrument.
It's just my favorite.
Of course that's what I played,
I'm pushing that on my daughter because I want to play in our city band, not the symphony, with just the city band
once we get the, the French horn
I get a little bit more time.
Right now I'm busy chasing my kids.
sounds like you've got a houseful.
I love it,
we have marvelous band instructor,
We have, couple of hundred kids in the band,
our junior high band is just wonderful.
that's a,
He, lot,
and their concert band,
he has a jazz band that my older daughter was in,
my son will be in next year
they college level music in junior high,
he's that good of an instructor,
the kids just love him.
that's wonderful,
it's really good.
It is wonderful.
have a tin ear
do you .
I love music.
I cannot carry a tune in a basket.
I know what I like,
I love to listen to it, love to sing, and kids, when I was little and, they were little
I was
I guess, this is topic near and dear to my heart,
since I healthy eater,
try to be as well,
there really isn't any kind of particular food that like really,
I like a good Italian restaurant
or a good,
especially like good prime rib
it's, nice to get out and find a good restaurant like that,
I live here in, Rome, New York,
there are a lot of good restaurants around here.
you're in New York,
I was going to,
there's a place, if you ever make it to Dallas
they have the best prime rib.
It's called Lawry's, like Lawry's seasoning salt
it is absolutely wonderful.
we were there a few months ago,
kind of pricey,
from New York it probably doesn't matter,
I'm in upstate New York,
it's actually very inexpensive,
there's a
is it, okay.
there's a place, half a mile from me here that, has, fantastic prime rib for, eleven dollars
for a whole meal,
a potato and salad and soup, and the nine yards,
I think the cheapest there probably starts at eighteen,
it includes, salad and rolls and, some other stuff,
it is absolutely wonderful.
It's the best I have ever had.
I was going to this place up the street from me is the best I've ever had,
I'll have to go there when I get to
get to Dallas.
Mexican food
think Italian and Mexican food are probably my favorites.
I'm not into sushi or any of that kind of stuff.
I'm don't do fish like that,
I do bar oysters and things like that,
I go on,
I'm an officer in the Air Force and travel quite a bit on business
I, find myself down in Melbourne, Florida about a month, once every two months or so
and, go and hit oyster bars down there quite a bit
I love that,
fresh seafood down there,
Maryland's great,
you get the crabs
it's like, I can't go anywhere where I
where I don't enjoy myself,
seafood seems to be bit more expensive other types of food.
That's true.
it sure is good,
it's supposed to be good for you.
it's really strange that seafood is so expensive, because in reality, I, say that, the oceans have the greatest of food
on the planet,
yet, we figured out a way to harvest it economically
we managed to, figure out how to get at just about everything else, but,
but seafood.
Do you like spicy foods
wicked chili
around here the big spicy thing is buffalo wings
you go out to get the chicken wings
those are really hot
and the hotter the better,
like spicy food down here, especially, the hot sauce, Picante sauce, or salsa
whatever you all call it
sure go through a lot of that .
I like it hot,
I don't like it real hot
because then my nose starts running .
my scalp will start,
I can feel just the top of my scalp getting hot,
the weirdest, weirdest sensation,
almost like a tingling,
I don't know,
there too much in the way of restaurants that I don't like.
Things that are kind of oddball, like, Thai cuisine,
I never been really fond of that stuff.
You talk about spicy,
literally blow your head off,
it's so hot.
I can handle just about any kind of food without,
stuff one notch beyond,
my tolerances,
Although I guess on this topic are to talk about the, service in a restaurant is always nice though, too
that's one thing,
the price.
What's that?
the price.
Make you want to come back.
I find that lately that so many people are waitressing jobs waiter,
Go ahead.
I haven't given this lot of thought.
I'm, pleased with the that is they,
(( you would favor )) invasions of privacy on the other hand that's arguable but people who's jobs are critical to public safety should have to meet special standards.
I haven't given this matter enough thought.
Do you work for T I?
I'm in the Washington area.
I work for (( N I S T )) .
all right.
see we have the testing already here.
We've had it for, about five years.
It used to just be for new employees.
it's for all employees.
They, randomly select employee numbers
the day that they select you is when you have to go be tested.
how do people feel about it?
we're familiar with it.
we have a lot of, people upset about it at the beginning. Some not all.
what was happening at T I is that they found certain parts of the company there was a lot of drug abuse. mainly the areas they were doing a lot of, manufacturing type things
what they ended up doing is, kind of doing a little bit of an undercover agent to watch what was happening,
we had people using on the premises and actually selling and dealing, on the premises.
a very different issue.
it was, combination both activities using too
they developed this, drug policy eliminate,
there's some parts of the company that we do, government contracts,
I think some of those require the drug testing,
now T I thought we'll just do it for all employees not just because of safety issues but because we want a totally drug free safe environment for all people to work in
that we shouldn't have, people on drugs within our, offices and such.
I haven't personally ever been tested,
I don't have a problem with it.
does the testing cover alcohol as well as illegal drugs?
one thing that me was, going on, stretching it a little too far was that they also check, if you are taking somebody else's prescription drug.
it happens a lot of times
like some member of the family gets the flu or whatever
(( )) ,
then they give it to everybody else in the family and don't always go back to the, doctor and get another prescription.
according to what they do at T I, if you take a prescription drug it has to be in your name.
can't be in your spouse's name
for, I guess, any kind of drugs,
you have to tell them what they are taking a prescription for.
they ask you to declare beforehand what prescription drugs you are taking?
When you get tested you are supposed to tell them, everything might be there.
then if they ever, question you or something you may have to show proof that you do have a prescription in your name.
I guess that, in fact, they don't routinely test for very many prescription drugs
(( don't say in advance )) ,
what they testing for are the ones that would have barbiturates or codeine things like that in them.
The ones that would kind of constitute controlled substances or something (( anyway )) .
I guess that's what wouldn't be looking for penicillin and and stuff.
They would be looking for the, controlled things, barbiturates amphetamines.
what they are asking you to tell them is all the prescription drugs you are taking which are controlled substances.
You pretty much, put down what you remember even if it was just Contact or something like that.
afterwards, maybe if you had a controlled substance .
Is Contact a,
Bo ,
probably put down, you had (( Drixoral )) or Contact if you would remember that you did it.
Is Contact a,
(( )) substance?
just saying you probably put down on the sheet
anything you have taken.
if they had a controlled substance, maybe they would ask you then to show that you had that prescription in your name.
I know I had one contract employee through Manpower was not a T I person,
but was a contract person,
they test them too even if you are not a real, T I er.
If you are a contract employee here
they test you too.
he had taken some kind of,
just, he had some kind of flu or something.
He got a real bad migraine
he took his mother's,
All right.
What is your favorite show?
I was just trying to think.
When they called, I didn't have as much time to prepare for this as I did some of the others.
I love watching some of the, shows basically.
C N N
we took that,
we started watching a lot of those especially during the war or during anything kind of thing like the earthquake,
I have gotten stuck on a lot of this.
The new shows and the stuff that comes on it,
discussion talk shows and things.
we really haven't gotten a lot into the sitcoms that are current, especially with the kids here because we have to kind of filter it before they get here.
We have little ones.
we do let them watch NINE ONE ONE,
we think that's kind of informative to teach them,
It really is.
how to handle things in situations.
What do you watch?
I watch just about anything,
not a lot of,
T V.
I'll watch, maybe a little while when I first get home in the evening.
I usually watch, the news
I'll watch that HARD COPY or
That's the same thing we do.
or that kind of thing,
I like the NINE ONE ONE,
and UNSOLVED MYSTERIES.
I like really more than,
the sitcoms.
I haven't gotten,
Now, I do,
into many of those.
my husband is really crazy about EVENING SHADE that comes Monday evening.
I have heard that's real good.
Burt Reynolds, isn't it?
I've heard that.
I've got to where every Monday I rush around so I could sit and watch that with him because it's really funny.
Now someone told me that
also, I meant to be trying to pick up on MURPHY BROWN,
because they said that that was really good this season.
his favorite night is Monday night
we've got to where we will sit,
You've got to yeah,
and watch it on Monday night,
I can't even think of the name of it.
I say I'm not,
DESIGNING WOMEN is on that night,
the one with sergeant that married the woman with the kids, Sergeant (( McGillis )) .
I don't even know.
Sergeant, DAD.
Now I,
we've never even seen that.
that comes on right after, the EVENING SHADE and then MURPHY BROWN,
and DESIGNING WOMEN.
watches that
in on the others,
On the others.
as I can.
on Friday nights especially, we like to watch TWENTY TWENTY.
It's kind of a competition on Thursdays between PRIME TIME and KNOTS LANDING.
we used to like KNOTS LANDING a lot.
excuse me just a minute .
The money is right there on the thing and the coupon.
you can't hardly watch KNOTS LANDING with the little kids around though.
I know.
That's the thing.
Except they,
probably are in bed,
by nine.
they are.
In fact, on weeknights they are in bed by eight,
we have just gotten any more that where we just keep it off.
Did you get your pizza taken care of?
he has gone to get it.
Thank you .
I was (( )) to say on Saturdays there is absolutely nothing
that's the day my husband,
do you know,
wants to (( )) . .
I have picked up a show lately on Saturday night that I've really liked
that's SISTERS.
Have you watched that?
I saw that advertised today
it sounds like it's not fluff.
It sounds like it's good.
pretty good.
it's kind of like, soap opera I guess.
that's what they said it was kind of,
it's a,
a little more drama to it.
So far about three times now
it's really held my attention.
It's been pretty good. Some,
a ,
pretty good acting.
another one now that it's getting darker
you are wanting to cocoon more,
that they said is excellent is the I'LL FLY AWAY and BROOKLYN BRIDGE.
Some of these,
Now I watched,
that are nostalgic.
BROOKLYN BRIDGE this week for the first time,
Did you,
I haven't,
like it?
I did.
I liked it.
Did you?
they said that one and I'LL FLY AWAY are really quality,
Now I haven't seen I'LL FLY AWAY yet.
I haven't seen it either.
I think what I need to do is kind of read to see what is on these days because by the time we get the kids in bed at eight o'clock and then I get my bath
almost too late to start,
It's nearly,
something new.
too late for T V.
That's the way I am.
I get in,
from work
I'm tired
I sit and watch for a few minutes
I have to get up and do dinner,
and everything.
we've gotten to where we rent videos for weekend nights.
we are kind of,
That's us.
tuned out of our T V.
If we are home on the weekend, we always watch videos,
we do too.
there are some good shows on.
really probably should watch more of them than I do.
I like,
I don't know
always in to making things
I don't know,
There's a lot more to do with,
I don't just spend all my time,
with your time when you get into it.
husband, now he sits and watches T V constantly.
sister husband do on weekends.
They don't have children yet,
they just turn it on when they walk in,
they turn it off when they leave.
they are used to that too.
I could be around here for hours myself and never have it on.
I understand.
Same here.
there are some really good new shows that I have enjoyed,
I'll have to watch that I'LL FLY AWAY this week.
it's real good.
of course, in the afternoons if I get in from work in time I watch OPRAH, some of those,
talk shows.
I like her.
I never get in in time for any of those.
nice talking to you.
I guess we've kind of exhausted this one,
it's nice talking with you.
it's nice talking with you.
Thank you.
Bye bye.
I guess it's,
watching today there had a lot of stuff crime.
In our state right now, recently they've had a lot of, the rapists, murder type, killers going around
they've caught them
in there.
Wasn't it your state that had the, guy that committed all those murders?
There was that,
Wisconsin, and Milwaukee area,
that was really on the national news a lot.
We heard a lot about that in Texas.
live right on the border of Minnesota and Wisconsin
I kind of get news
I know, in Minnesota, they had, the one that just, got out and went after a, college student and raped,
and killed her
they are not too happy about that now, I guess,
I can imagine.
(( There )) .
It seems like the violent crimes are increasing a lot to me.
don't know.
I don't know if statistically they are
it seems like lot more about them on the news
I don't know.
that's hard to say for sure.
wonder if these people it just for the publicity
You wonder about that sometimes.
get their names paper
they become big celebrities.
That's kind of scary.
wish there was some way that we could change the news media so they didn't feature these way out stories.
Maybe it wouldn't give other people ideas.
I know one thin , think Texas has the death penalty, right?
we do.
Do you have it up there?
I see.
See no , i ,
Do you think that's a deterrent?
it's not going to prevent any people from doing it
the person that's caught, he'll never do it again if he gets the death penalty.
there are a lot of repeaters.
I guess that's another thing that to me is real problem,
I know we have got so many people in our system now, at least here in Texas
they are really in a crisis.
There has been times they have had to just close off the prisons and leave them in county jails or whatever because there just wasn't enough room for all of them.
a lot of them they put out on parole
some of the ones that they put out early, do repeat offenses
the crime rate is the worst than ever before.
some, I'm just wondering a lot of times they will put, people, lesser crimes in, with, people that did more severe crimes
than just tend to learn from these people
get back out, they just go into worse crimes.
I think that could be true too.
Maybe they should try and separate them a little bit more.
I think the whole parole thing, if somebody is convicted of second degree murder or something gets fifteen years, they are out in six or seven. (( outbound on )) the streets again .
to me that's really scary.
Some of these crimes that they commit, seems like the punishment is not really equal to the crime.
I don't know my limited, psychology background I do have, even feel that prisons and stuff the answer.
If you want to stop the crime, I think you've got to get, the people when they are kids.
A lot of this probably just starts from the homes. Also from the media, the T V s,
all these, gory movies on there becomes, just a natural fact of life.
They think it's okay thing to do.
I think that's a very good point.
there's a lot more working mothers, a lot more kids in day care centers all that kind of thing.
Morality is being taught more by the schools a lot of times than in the home anymore.
a lot of the European countries, they tend to sensor,
they probably won't sensor so much the sexual stuff as much as the violent.
they have a lot less crime.
those European countries you can leave doors open and be safe.
even, I think New Zealand is the places, that,
have you established what kind of requirements you are looking your next vehicle?
I don't know if I really have lot of, requirements.
I guess I look at, getting the best deal.
that's my main objectives normally. Whoever is willing to deal give me a good price.
tend to be more methodical I guess.
I determine first of all what I'm going to use the vehicle for, whether it's going to be primarily as a family mover or as personal mover. where it's going to be driven, what types of, driving I'm going to be doing on it, primarily highway local mileage more often.
hanging in the back of my mind is always the knowledge that I tend to drive cars for about ten years and a hundred fifty to two hundred thousand miles.
real picky.
you are going to keep something that long, you better get something that you wanted to begin with and that you are going to like for a long time.
I don't know I've had pretty good luck,
even you take any car you care for it well enough, you are going to get some good life out of it.
Oldsmobile right now that I have, is getting near eighty thousand
it's still in pretty good shape.
there was a flaw in there head gasket bolt broke,
it cost me some bucks fix that
that was, something that was unforeseen.
I still think going to get probably a hundred fifty thousand or more out of it.
it sounds like you tend to drive your cars quite a ways also then.
drive like the song says, THE LITTLE OLD LADY not FROM PASADENA
baby them as much as I possibly can.
it's a pretty big expense nowadays.
I guess I like to take care of it,
I don't have to buy one too often.
That's true.
do you have more one vehicle in your fleet?
do you have a family fleet
I got an old, seventy six, Grand Fury that, doesn't want to die on me
just keep running the thing. Don't want to sell it or get rid of it until it quits,
it just doesn't seem to want to.
I'll probably have, three, four hundred thousand before it wants to die.
that may be.
made some really good old engines back then
three eighteen was particularly an exceptionally good engine.
(( )) I've got the big three sixty in there, gas guzzler
it runs good.
At the moment I've got, Cadillac (( Cimarron )) which is approaching its tenth year of age and a, reasonably new Plymouth Voyager.
It's only couple of years old.
that's the second one those that we've had,
that's family travel vehicle.
not only does it do all carpooling around during the week,
it's also the vacation vehicle that we all drive in.
I think that what I'm getting ready to get next is probably a Suburban unless they drastically change vehicle a lot.
I'm just getting tired of when I do get hung up in traffic, not being able to determine what the problem is come to some resolution of whether it's better to sit in the traffic light and wait or get off at the next exit and that kind of stuff.
Just because I can't see,
just so small and so low to the ground that I can't see past any vehicle ,
that's in front of me.
I'm considering probably some kind of a pickup truck myself for the next vehicle.
I just have so many hauling projects a lot of times
like to just start doing some, carpentry, type work around.
I just feel that,
what have you seen lately that, you think is worthwhile?
the last movie I saw was HENRY.
Have you seen that yet?
saw the previews.
It's really good.
I loved it.
does it have a happy ending,
really good ending
best movies I've seen in a long time.
I generally don't get into movies that much,
I saw that one,
then before that one, I saw, NAKED GUN TWO AND A HALF.
that was funny, wasn't it .
seen that one?
the regular NAKED GUN and AIRPORT and,
it's exactly like AIRPLANE
wasn't it .
it was silly.
now these are for two very different movies.
absolutely slapstick comedy and one clearly, serious subject.
guess I have similarly broad tastes.
my most recent, movie liked a lot, not my most recent movie, was HENRY THE FIFTH.
I only rented it, maybe a month ago
it's been out for a couple of years,
Have you seen that?
I haven't seen that yet.
it's an adaptation Shakespeare play,
it's beautifully done.
I believe that all the language is as Shakespeare wrote it, except it's been shortened a little bit
there might be a word or two changed.
it's a glorious movie
I like, as you know, these movies,
I also like just some strange movies.
Do you have any.
Such as .
one that comes immediately to mind, is the THE COOK, THE THIEF, HIS WIFE, HER LOVER.
there are also these various, David Lynch movies.
hooked on TWIN PEAKS.
That made me go out and watch every David Lynch movie I could lay my hands on.
I haven't seen any of those.
They're really good?
especially recommend,
to just sort of like this thing,
you have to like,
did you see TWIN PEAKS?
drawn to watch that, wouldn't be drawn to these movies, either.
just strange.
like mystery,
I think suspense is the right word.
but, a little bit strange and esoteric
in the case of TWIN PEAK there's some elements of the supernatural in it, too.
That was the television show.
there's also a producer of movies in Baltimore called, John Walters, on even weirder movies.
his most recent ones have actually been fairly mainstream, like HAIR SPRAY.
back in his early days, he had things,
are the titles,
I can't remember the titles any more. some really weird ones, with quite a random crew characters.
it would have made, these Fellini movies look normal.
do you like, movies a lot?
I don't do,
I don't.
like movies a lot.
I don't do that,
I don't go to movies that often,
just recently I've been to a couple .
you rent them,
just go to the dollar movie theater around here
I don't know,
usually fall asleep
I get bored pretty easily
that's what my wife does too,
she falls asleep .
pick just the right kind of movie
to, to appeal.
that's exactly right.
it was good talking to you.
it's good to talk to you, too.
Take care.
Bye bye.
did they tell you our topic?
somebody else answered the phone and put my number in.
what is the topic?
The topic is cars.
What kind of car will you buy next
what kind of decision think about that car out why.
my next car to buy probably would be a Cadillac.
I've had,
I'm on my third one.
I'm not real sure that I'd be in the market for a car for quite a while.
I'm the same way.
two Cadillacs.
I went to my first Lincoln this last time.
I travel
my grandfather worked for Ford Motor Company
he always said why don't you drive a Ford, or why don't you try a Lincoln
I finally tried one
after fifty years
I've had, four Cadillacs one Suburban in my last five cars,
I bought a Lincoln
I like it.
My dad has been Lincoln man for a lot of years,
I've always been a G M man.
I'm in the auto parts business myself.
are you?
the last Cadillac I bought was an Allante.
I just love it to death.
I'm not sure I'd ever get rid of it.
traveling salesman.
I travel on the road
I like a little heavier car
I used to do that quite a bit myself.
that's why I choose, to drive a heavier car
and more luxury car.
I tell you what,
I will probably get a Cadillac the next time quite honestly.
because I like the Lincoln
there's just something about that Cadillac that, whether it's a G M C product or whatever.
They seem to put,
Seems they handle better.
They seem to be put together a little bit better.
I think so, too.
the buttons on the controls and things like that are a little easier to get to than Ford products
I think that's one of the things that makes me shy away from, imports is they put so much, gadgetry on the dash
buttons are so small
they really do.
to push
G M doesn't seem to do that.
I kind of like that feature,
I'm a funny duck
to the simple things like front end alignments
I have never had to have a front end alignment on a Cadillac.
I don't know
whether I just seem to drive them better or what,
I've never had to have a front end alignment on a Cadillac.
They always appear to hold well.
an Eldorado, was my first one, was an eighty
I think at about sixty thousand miles I finally had it lined up.
Did you.
I had them do all four wheels.
the only thing I miss about a Cadillac is,
a Fleetwood Brougham was my last car
I on my Lincoln
they're just not as large as before.
I do miss that.
That's true,
what is big today.
you're right.
Lincoln is still as big as it always has been
it's big,
the trunk space for me,
what I usually do is I usually take the back seat out of my car
that's where I put my samples because trunks just aren't big enough.
You know a car I ran across recently that has a tremendously large trunk is the Lincoln Continental.
I have the Town Car
a deep trunk, but not as broad as Cadillac.
the Town Car, I noticed,
Continental, I time
we could, put golf clubs in them.
straight across.
They went all the way down?
Front to back.
that's good.
Not going from side to side.
That's good.
we got three full sets in there and still had room for luggage.
I sell sporting goods, hunting related items,
I sell cases
I see.
and things like that
I need to,
that's about the same size as a golf club.
stretch out and gun cases and things like that
I don't know if you've ever looked at a Continental.
it's not as peppy Town Car
it's a V Six,
it from here to Memphis
I really enjoyed driving that car.
If I was going to buy a Ford product, that's what I would buy.
I drove mine a couple weeks ago to big national sales meetings in Nashville.
I usually fly.
I drove it with another one of my guy that worked for me.
We drove it ten hours to Nashville,
handled real well,
my main thing is space,
if a Continental,
I might consider it the next time,
a Continental has
You might take a look at them.
more trunk space.
had lot more trunk space.
As a matter of fact, they had more trunk space than my, Sedan De Ville had.
You always have leather interiors on your Cadillacs?
all three of mine have had leather interiors,
I like leather interiors also.
I had a eighty Eldorado, which was leather
then my eighty six was a touring sedan.
it had the gray leather package in it
my Allante has,
That's a nice car.
I guess colored type thing.
You bet,
say one thing about Cadillacs versus,
my favorite team is about the Rangers.
Is it?
I'd have to agree with that.
They are my favorite team, too.
A little disappointing the last few years.
I'm telling you.
You think they'll sign Ruben?
I really don't.
that they're going to be able to sign Ruben Sierra
it's just going to be a shame for, our area.
I think it's going to have a big effect if they don't on the other, Hispanic players.
I do, too.
I just,
I think
The main thing,
that's going to be the big problem.
It's just going to effect on team,
We just can't seem to,
I think we've been in this spot,
I think we finished second once or maybe even twice.
I don't know,
I'm, I haven't been to a baseball game in a couple of years.
too disappointing.
I just watch them fall every year.
I was a Pete Incaviglia fan
I liked him,
of course, I understand baseball decisions are all just,
decisions like that have to be made by someone .
Glad it's not me making them.
I think they just want to stay mediocre and draw their two million fans out there and then be happy with it and not have to pay the bucks to get a contender in here.
They say as long as they draw up two million fans that
Greave and Valentine will be there.
that's the name of the game, too.
You got to make money.
pay these players so much money,
it's just
it's frightening.
You and I should be so lucky go out and swing a bat and get two thousand dollars every time you swing the bat or something like that.
That's true.
they were talking about trading him, if they're not able to sign him use the money that it would take to sign the guy, to pay for pitchers what they, what else they need.
they've got the hitting,
they need the pitching.
they really do.
need them all.
the big cities, like in New York or L A or somewhere because big cities
can go out there in the afternoon and probably make five thousand dollars just by doing a personal appearance at a
I know.
at a men's clothing store, or something, or sporting goods store,
I realize the difference,
I just don't understand,
it's sure aggravating when you go out and bust your butt working, your day job and you can work your day job the rest of your life and not bring home as much money as they bring home in one game.
I know.
I tell you.
It's real aggravating,
one thing I don't understand is why a group, headed up by George Bush would buy the Texas Rangers and not really get behind them
I tell you, we need a winner in this town.
It looks like our Cowboys are coming back
That's right.
going to be a big help to Dallas,
in the past half a dozen years, all we've had is the,
It's always got,
the soccer team.
wondered me why, they act as though this area is not, a big metropolitan area,
you think we'd, someday get an owner in here that could afford to buy the players we need.
I know.
Just real aggravating to
I've lived here, since, I was born and raised here,
I've been a Ranger fan since about seventy seven,
it's a lot of losers .
I know.
It's about to get,
I've been one,
as bad as the Cubs or whoever,
here since seventy four
I've really been a Ranger fan for the longest time
I don't miss a time picking up the morning paper
and checking the box score.
I follow them
I follow them like I follow the Mavericks and like I follow the Cowboys,
I want to see them win, because damn it, deserve it.
we have pretty, great fans, put two million people in that stadium.
I'm telling you.
I love Nolan Ryan.
I guess you probably love him, too.
I think this town would go crazy if they ever got playoff team.
do, too.
It would be packed.
they got that new stadium they are building.
that will be exciting
It will.
when we get that,
where do you think they are heading this year?
it's hard to say.
It's going to be depending on do with Ruben Sierra
I'm getting tired of them going into each year saying, Bobby Witt is the answer and Kevin Brown
Right .
is the answer,
man, that's getting old,
These guys have been pampered.
it's time either, put out or shut up.
Bobby Witt
gets forced into wins like seventeen games or whatever
they have the later ten game winning streak
they give him all kinds of money
he just goes right down the tubes.
And Valentine and Greave, old.
I like this Sandy Johnson.
I forgot we had to hit one .
Our time will be up.
I hit one and nothing happened.
What's going on?
just go ahead and talk,
that's all.
Are you sure?
Don't they usually tell you to say something?
I don't think so.
we're supposed to talk about lawn and garden.
supposed to find out what you do for your lawn
What do I do?
and garden.
cut it
you're ahead of me.
that good?
That's better.
I edge it occasionally.
that's really good.
am I good, or what?
I don't do any of that.
much beyond that I don't do .
I call my lawn man, Eric, whatever his name is,
Who's going to come and build me a fence, too.
he is going to build you a fence.
he's giving me an estimate.
for ten dollars a week, I don't see any reason
What, for
for me to
a fence?
be doing it.
No, for my yard. *
I thought, isn't he the same one?
he is.
but ten dollars, or he charge, not even that.
What does he charge me?
I don't know.
It's like next to nothing.
ten because I,
it's forty a month.
if there's five weeks, I still pay forty.
you ought to get him to the weeds.
he won't pull weeds.
He says he'll spray them,
he won't pull them.
he won't cut them is what he won't do.
Because he said with the rocks
that it's too dangerous for him to take trimmer
over the rocks
he's right.
That's true.
he just says to keep spraying them so,
Anyway, Gene sprayed them once or twice for me
that was real,
pulled any weeds lately?
There are two out front
I thought I'd grab one of these days,
I haven't bothered as I walk on by.
I started to pull the weeds in the rocks out front
all of a sudden I came cross this big clump of weeds
there was dog dirt in it
I threw the gloves in the trash bag that was out there
I left the whole thing
I thought you were going to say there
that was about a month ago.
I thought you were going to say there was a snake in the weeds .
I would rather a snake,
no .
God, .
I just left the whole thing.
The bag is still out there because I haven't touched it.
I haven't gone back over there.
It really made me mad.
how are flowers, your little things you planted?
Did they die or what?
now they died.
they're all,
are they going to come back in the spring?
I don't know.
I don't know,
then I got some nice, mums at Thanksgiving that I put in the pots out there
I thought they were supposed to live through all the cold weather.
They looked real pretty until about a week before Christmas,
then they started to die, too.
I don't think any of it comes back
I don't know,
maybe these,
sometimes things do that aren't even supposed to.
I don't know,
Those flowers, remember those little ones you gave me?
still blooming up until about few weeks ago.
that's good.
They're the best kind.
like indestructible.
They're really pretty.
They really grow nice
sometimes, they're not supposed to come back,
lots of times they do.
We'll see.
They're letting us have a lot of time on this
aren't they?
isn't it supposed to be five minutes?
that's because we didn't hit one for a long time.
We didn't disconnect, did we ?
I hope not .
Neither one of us
Boy, I hate to think
is getting paid for this.
I hate to think I'd be talking to you without getting paid .
I know it.
I can't believe this.
I got somebody from
and somebody,
where was the person last night
You're kidding?
was from far away.
we get each other down the street.
This is so funny.
to someone woman from Oklahoma City and some woman from Dallas
that was it.
I've had Dallas, Arlington.
I've had, one Plano
and then a lady from Brigham, Utah whose
son lives in Plano on Ranier someplace.
And then, another state,
I can't remember,
she told me about the Utah Jazz,
we talked about basketball.
really ?
I don't remember the place was last night,
I'm thinking Colorado,
I'm not sure
I'd know the place, anyway.
I don't know,
mostly they're from the area.
there isn't really much to talk about as far as lawn and garden goes.
Not for me.
Not for me
not for me
do I,
because all I have is rocks and weeds.
I don't,
do, cut it one, edge it
that's about it.
I know.
What do I do with it?
I know,
we're not typical Texans.
Bu , ,
What's going on,
are they going to tell us to stop or what ?
I don't know,
I hope so.
Come on,
come on.
Isn't it five minutes?
I don't know.
I'm all talked out about gardens.
I know.
we can talk about something else.
It's just a suggested topic.
it's just suggested?
how's the baby, do you think ?
How's the,
We could talk,
Let's talk about the baby.
Let's talk about the baby.
Do you want to tell me about your budgeting plan?
our budgeting plan includes me getting a job .
at the point now,
working about six months ago to start this house
I'm out of cash
I'm not out of project yet.
I'm going to go back and do some consulting work.
As far as budget's concerned, fairly fortunate.
right now where if we don't buy anything extra, we can make it on what my wife makes.
the project's kind of halted until then.
as far as budgeting is concerned, we have, some pretty strict guidelines that we go for, D you know,
we always put ten percent back,
that's a never touch.
into savings.
Either savings or investment, one of the two,
we don't ever put it in a high risk.
It's just always going to be there.
that's pretty good.
as far as the rest of it's concerned, we don't have any kind of, what I would call extravagant expenses,
pretty much live on about eight, nine hundred a month, just travel to and from work and clothing and food
Boy, that's pretty good.
the rest of it, we pile into the house.
I'm fairly fortunate.
our credit cards are out to the max right now because I'm
a little behind on that,
we're still making the payments on them.
It's just, when you,
in Texas you cannot borrow the money to build your own home
and do it yourself.
tough here too.
You have to have the contractor sign with you.
it's easy to find a contractor for a couple of hundred bucks who'll sign it and let you do it
(( )) , where I live, that is.
where I live, pretty scary, because Texas is one of those strange states where if you have a contractor sign on your note like that
and you screw up, you don't get it finished,
the bank can eat the contractor.
bad for him,
bad for him.
the homeowner can't be touched.
It's a homestead state.
Is that right?
right now if I quit paying any of my bills,
the only thing they could do is cut off electricity.
They can't take your land unless you don't pay your land taxes. Period.
They can take your car and your clothes and your, anything
that's not the tools of your trade,
as far as, you know , you're pretty much bullet proof in this state.
that's kind of handy.
I just finished James Michener's TEXAS book.
Pretty interesting.
Texas has quite the history.
not ones to budget much, .
We just going to spend it all.
That's kind of what we do.
L D S
we pay ten percent
we put I guess it's fifteen to twenty percent into a savings account.
that sometimes we use for emergency type things.
my wife doesn't work.
We're fortunate that way, that I make enough to do what we want to do.
we're pretty, pretty fortunate as far as budgeting is concerned, because, we don't have any long term debt.
we paid cash for car.
we bought the car on time, one of them,
since paid it off.
that's pretty.
The land is paid for cash,
we don't have to worry about that.
That's a great position to be in.
it's fraught with other problems .
Is that right?
I'm not very motivated .
Oh .
What kind of consulting do you do?
systems consulting. Computerization for construction firms.
Is that right?
I'm into computers, too.
I'm a E D P auditor.
You into mainframes?
Ye ,
and P C s.
I'm just brushing up on, C plus plus.
Are you really?
I just got that a few days ago.
don't get me to lying.
I bought it at a fire sale.
This guy's place burned down,
he had a bunch of computer stuff,
I bought it all.
It was two hundred bucks for everything he had.
You got a buy.
some of it wasn't worth anything,
a lot of the, diskettes were just totally unusable.
Melted, or Just wet
, or wet .
I did get out of there with, Vermont Views, which is a huge,
Cindy, you there?
what kind of dinner parties have you had?
I've had them, where I've served up to twelve to sixteen people.
I had help with them.
part of them I did were a buffet
I had, just different, side dishes and appetizers
one of them I'd remembered was, some, sausage hors d'oeuvres
anyhow, you take, a couple of, cups of Bisquick
and, sausage, like Owens mild,
use the hot if you wanted to.
Whatever you like,
you put that in
you get some real sharp cheddar cheese
and put that in and a little bit of milk and make it all doughy
I just put them in little balls and bake them for about fifteen minutes
they are so good.
that sounds delicious.
It's making me hungry for them
right now.
I've made little Swedish meatballs,
Have you?
they're just made out of the beef,
And, with spices and things in them.
But never anything mixed with Bisquick.
used that quite a bit
seems to work real well.
when I've had so many people, feed, I try to do a ham and a turkey
my, that's my parties mostly is at Christmas time and Thanksgiving time.
an open house party here once we moved in here, which I had things like that,
I always cooked them ahead of time
then I just sliced them.
and had macaroni salad with, shrimp in it.
Have you ever had that?
Put some shrimp
it's, in your macaroni salad that you make.
The shrimp just gives it a really good flavor.
I'll bet.
I don't like the can, but the fresh.
I'll have to try that.
that was really good.
I like things that are easy nutritious.
at, Christmas time we just have a regular sit down dinner,
Which is kind of hard because you got so many people
by time you pass everything around,
it seems like everything on your plate's cold.
I know.
I know .
anyhow, I,
Thank God for microwaves,
you can,
always take your plate and just heat it up,
other than that, don't have too many parties.
I have, maybe just over
for dinner.
other than that I don't have,
a whole bunch of people at Christmas
I have my family.
I don't anymore.
it's been a few years
I don't have, over a couple either
I try to, have everything all ready
just makes it a lot nicer where a don't all my time in the kitchen.
that's easy.
I always like to have that, too.
Everybody seems to like that, too.
I know,
I don't think I've ever met anyone that didn't.
everybody likes that.
if you have a nice big roast that you can throw in the oven, then you can put your potatoes and carrots or whatever else
all in there, Especially if a pork roast.
That's what I love, with my d ,
I like it, too.
I do, too.
other than that, in fact, I'm just thinking of what next weekend when the Super Bowl's on
I've asked a couple people to come over
I just, had been thinking what to have for that .
have you had any good ideas
not yet .
don't want to have to come away from the T V.
I want something that I can just take them and serve them while they're sitting in front of the T V.
I'll think of something, just we can munch on over there,
they can just fill their plate up at intermission and then go back over there and sit down.
that's the way to do it, too.
so nice is we can have good food that's good for you
you don't have to spend hours and hours and hours in the kitchen.
Preparing it,
it makes an awful lot of difference, doesn't it?
it sure does.
when I was brought up, we didn't,
go ahead,
tell me what you think.
Do we get our money's worth?
Hey, listen, if I had my way, I wouldn't pay my taxes.
things that I hear that our tax money is going for some ludicrous things.
did you see SIXTY MINUTES last night?
I did not.
they did a thing on the thirty five billion dollars we waste every year just on storing stuff for the military we don't need.
it's staggering.
a lady,
on a Christian program
it was, about the N E A
that's the National Endowment for Arts,
on a stage and did a study on it between two lesbians and two homosexuals and wrote a report about that with our money.
there are a lot of things that people, I think general,
it just frosts me terribly.
I think it's interesting to look at, where the money goes,
it goes a lot of places where it probably ought not go
what's interesting is that we probably represent the majority of people in this country in terms of their feelings about the government
how it serves us given the extraordinarily large sum of money the government has to operate with.
I believe that's true,
I think is going to be really interesting is what we do about it.
we are going to have to change the people who represent us.
That's correct.
I think it's going to be real interesting to see then force upon them,
Heavy involvement from the public.
right that's
I think that's the only thing that's going to change it.
heavy involvement from the public.
Our anger is going to have give
rise more activity on our part.
said for years that there's full employment for the politically active
in our society, there's very little full employment.
Most people in this country are getting worse off, not better off.
Eighty percent of the public, according to Bill Moyers',
piece for,
Public Broadcasting, which, by the way is a very good use of government money. I think P B S is wonderful.
this special focused on the fact that eighty percent of the people in this country seeing their real incomes,
thus, standards of living, decline.
twenty percent are seeing theirs improve.
That's not a formula for a better society.
it is not.
It's lopsided, very much
the government really plays a role in this.
that's right,
they pull the strings.
they are the people whose strings are pulled and by I guess powerful intere ,
it's really interesting to see how that affects people because essentially more and more people in this country are not likely to revolt in the way that people used to think the voter revolting.
people are pretty much getting the picture that some people get taken care of and others don't
they think it's unfair,
when they recognize that it's their tax money, they're going to do more about it.
you very interesting.
C B S, after the State of the Union address is going to open up a telephone line, an eight hundred number
people can call in and say what they think about what's going on in this country.
They expect, opening it for one hour,
that they'll get three,
hundred thousand telephone calls.
I'm sure they will.
I've thought for years it would make a lot of sense to an eight hundred number for voters to call vent their frustration with government.
Like one, eight hundred capitol or something like that.
could call from anywhere, anytime.
I think that's coming
I think people really start to communicate how they feel, things are going to change.
Until then, I think, it's going to be really painful.
the question is, how soon are we going to start to get our money's worth
as you said, it's how soon we get involved,
I think we need to create mechanisms to allow us to get involved, like allowing us to call a toll free number and say, hey, look, do it this way, not that way, or I like this, or I don't like that, or this is how I feel about your spending my money on art that I don't think is art.
I understand that,
hopefully that the people that are listening to what our comments are take some action on it.
that's the good thing about what is happening because I think more and more the news media, which takes a heck of a beating deserves some of it, is telling us, about the problems.
the more we communicate, hey, look, we want a change here, because, as it turns out, we've wasted a tremendous amount of money on our defense spending in this country.
Over a very long period of time.
We only see the tip of the iceberg only.
there's so much
of it going on that it would really, set us into a deeper depression if we knew the whole picture.
you may be right.
What I think is really going to be interesting is to see how, we as a society deal with it
think it's a,
what do you think about the everyday occurrences an invasion of your privacy?
what don't like is calls, people selling things
people telling me I want things.
people trying to solicit for different, organizations.
that's what I really.
I think the only thing I wrote down also,
terrible today,
my wife and I, seems like we get home at five thirty and the damn phone starts ringing
Never stops ringing,
and rings up until ten, eleven o'clock sometimes.
That's right.
great, thing for that, is an answering machine .
I know,
that's true.
best inventions ever,
you just switch that thing on,
that's true.
it's like your name must be on a list or something, because I know at my office, I probably average at least a call a day,
a lot of days I'll get two and three calls, from
even in an office?
from people selling insurance
to the small business man
out to people also,
as far as brokers all, I get calls from brokers in New York,
California, always trying to sell something, investments or stock investments
or whatever.
now I'm getting the same calls
I know.
name from Dunn and Bradstreet,
credit card companies, they sell your name.
these people, they sell your names,
that's also an invasion of privacy.
I think it
the whole thing is,
American Express does that, by the way.
they do?
I understand they because it's quite profitable to them.
sure it is.
that is an invasion of privacy,
you're right.
That's right.
if you've ever gotten anything, in your life, name is somewhere .
I know,
that's true.
one magazine, and boom, they got your name forever.
magazine companies, subscriptions do the same thing
it's the way they make additional money.
That's right.
you have to be a certain income holder to, have an American Express card,
your name is valuable to, I guess, X amount of solicitors calling.
that's right.
I don't know.
do you, where are you from?
I'm from Texas.
we live in the Dallas area, Richardson.
we're in Plano.
Okay .
the only call I really got that, was out of state,
I got one from Oklahoma City, and one from California.
Did you?
that was, California,
I was thrilled to death, because that's, the furthest I'd gotten any call from,
talked to people in Utah, people in New York
a lot of times I'll call eight or nine o'clock in the morning
I'll get people
from state.
there was another call on California.
I don't know why I ask people on the weekends ,
from out of state,
I don't know,
I'll be darned.
Where you from?
Not from Texas.
originally from New Jersey.
New Jersey,
My wife's from New Jersey.
what part?
from, Saddle River.
that's nice over there.
we're the shore, central
New Jersey,
we're like,
that's nice, too.
it was beautiful,
that's why really miss it.
don't really like it here at all .
my wife's been away for twenty five years,
she's been away for quite a while.
Her dad was from Little Rock, Arkansas,
her mother was from New York,
they just
they (( )) over there in New Jersey.
anyway, this topic a good topic, as far as invasion of your privacy,
that's biggest one I can think of is all the solicitors calling.
of course they call,
before I got the answering machine, it was ridiculous
I know.
I said, this is absurd,
the minute I get home the phone would be ringing.
good suggestion.
I might start using the answering machine more, because
it's great,
it's so hard to not pick up that phone when it rings.
in fact, I've been missing calls from the T I switchboard,
always have it on
I'll get message that says, to, end this call, press three
I assumed it was from the switchboard.
you're probably right.
it is, because one day I listened, and it was ,
just got totally disgusted,
people asking money for everything,
I understand.
it's hard to believe there's that many deputy sheriffs associations
and, the policeman's associations.
I know,
they call you one time to send three kids to the car ,
I used to do that.
carnival or circus
I used to do that,
I'd send, three kids to the movies or something .
There's always a dif ,
my pat answer now is, you just called me the other night,
Gene .
it's nice to talk with you
food is a very intriguing thing.
Our lives built around foods that we like and, nutritionally good for us.
Yes, sir.
What kind of dining out do you like?
there is two kinds.
One I guess I'd say is with my wife where we enjoy,
I guess we usually enjoy a good seafood restaurant.
something nice.
the other is with my whole family whom we, go somewhere that the kids will enjoy .
recently we have been hitting Pancho's up.
It's a local Mexican restaurant.
(( )) because they have got and everything.
Pancho's, that's,
a new one.
a chain down he ,
it goes up into Colorado and down here.
I don't know where else it is.
What about you?
We have one called Chi Chi's area.
we had a restaurant called La Bamba
Chi Chi's is a national restaurant, I think.
Isn't it Mexican?
I think,
Do you have it there?
think it might be.
it around.
Yes, sir.
I love Mexican food myself.
do you?
you go ahead now .
do too.
enjoy Mexican food.
I'm just not impressed with the quality of it.
It's just primarily the price that's, satisfying at this point.
the kids,
Is that right?
seem to enjoy it.
let's see.
We've, just recently discovered a super restaurant down here
it's, not part of a chain
it's just an individually owned seafood restaurant.
the first one we've been to that, I don't think there was anything on the menu, any of us had
that was, not just really super.
It's nice to find a place like that.
boy that is wonderful.
agree with you on that.
I really a seafood addict myself.
love crab meat in particular.
can almost live seafood and almost live on the crab meat if I had to.
Have you ever been to, what is it, Original Book Binders in Philadelphia?
I, know the name
I haven't been there.
that's an old established, restaurant.
I used to go there when I was in college.
Where did you go to college?
I went to the Naval Academy.
the (( U S )) ,
we used to,
Naval Academy?
go up there football games sometimes.
And have some liberty.
we would go over there to,
sure it was Book Binders
I think it was,
I'll be darn.
I haven't been back there in years.
supposed to be talking about dinning out,
I'll just make one comment that, I just retired from Penn State,
all my work has been in research for the Navy .
What area?
Underwater acoustics.
Is that right?
Did you have any dealings with the, underwater sound reference laboratory in Orlando, Florida?
I have dealt with nearly research laboratories that the country has.
Yes, sir.
My dad worked there for years, and years.
where I grew up was down in Orlando.
you grew up in Orlando.
interesting, I was in submarines.
that's what I worked on.
must have had some interesting, assignments for you there.
did you retire?
The end of last month.
I'm sure you've seen some interesting developments in acoustics.
I certainly have .
I hate to,
I wish I could talk to you about that,
I guess we should continue on,
How do you like Chinese food?
do enjoy that.
Yes, sir.
I don't know if we are particularly adventurous,
we find something we like, like cashew shrimp or something that's got a good, at a particular restaurant
we usually stick by it.
do you,
What about you?
I, enjoy the Szechuan type of, Chinese food.
do a lot of Chinese cooking myself.
I have in the past.
I haven't done recently,
it's in the sweet and sour porks and things like are just really delicious meals.
Where did you learn how to do Chinese cooking?
just at home.
enjoyed the food
I bought a lot of, good cookbooks,
I've been following through on that.
When you find the right cookbook, why it works out.
What's a good reference cookbook for Chinese food?
that one's a good question.
Here it's right under my nose if I can find it .
I guess one of the things we've, started avoiding is the, run of the mill chop suey and things like that.
we enjoy trying, different kinds of chicken or, dishes that are fixed in a Chinese restaurant.
One of this book I have is called CHINESE COOKING MADE EASY.
it's a paperback
I think it's by someone named Chang.
Isabelle Chang.
thanks for that, reference.
I think you will enjoy that.
it certainly is nice talking with you Gene.
what is your phone at home?
That's it.
What do you think are possible changes in the, way trials are conducted these days?
Do you like the way some people in there for instance, really take over and, we have no way, of knowing whether they are legitimately right or wrong and so forth.
What do you think about these things?
as I look at our trial systems,
I think they've gotten to be quite a joke. The way the people can appeal and file for mistrials
they've taken a lot of the things that were set up to make it be a fair system and used it to their advantage.
I think that a jury should listen to the courts, the hearings and to everything,
I think they should only weigh fifty percent of the decision.
I think the judge should hold maybe even forty nine,
the judge should be able to rule one way or the other.
saying think the judge should actually have the final say?
I think he should.
I think that there should be more than one judge.
There should be maybe two, at least
that sit in and listen so that there's no way that you could have like a crooked judge.
Do you know what I mean?
I know what you mean.
I think that it's important to have a jury, but I think the way that they go through so much time to get it a fair one.
That's okay too.
As long as it's not used to delay the trial so much.
They need to have a fair jury
they only cover percent of the decision or fifty percent
the two judges would go ahead and make the final decision.
How do you feel about that?
I hadn't, thought of it from that point of view before.
I have been in a fairly important trial,
what bothers me is I was concerned of the ability of some of the people in the jury to adequately understand
what was being presented so that they themselves could make a proper and, accurate decision.
That's the part that bothered me about it.
I really think that the jury ought to have more say so in the selection or in the determination of whether they are guilty or not.
I also think that the jury should be, selected to make sure that they are entirely people and that they understand some of the details that are involved so that they can make decisions.
I hate to see people brought in who basically have lived out in the country and don't know much about any of this stuff,
they just make a decision based on whether they like the dress she wore that day or whether that guy smiled or growled all the time.
That's no way to make a decision on some terrible problem.
what if they used,
I just had a thought come as you were talking.
What if they used law students and had that be credit hours to sit in trials?
That would be certainly nice
let's say
would have fifty percent of them law students,
at least.
(( anyway )) .
At least,
on the jury.
that would give them,
experience in the courtroom,
it could count as some aspect or hours going into their major.
That's a very neat idea,
they would learn a lot about being lawyers later in life
when they see what it is like to be in the jury side of a trial.
That's right.
That would be a really good thing to do.
That would be really good thing to do.
it's ,
I have a girlfriend that just went through a three year trial,
what happened was her husband was, involved in a motorcycle accident where a drunk driver ran the stoplight
he ran into the motorcycle.
that was killed was because his brakes went out on his motorcycle.
He was just taking it home from the place.
It was brand new,
his brakes did not work.
For goodness sakes.
this expensive, big company that owned these motorcycles, railroaded this into three years worth of trials for this lady
she had a son that was just only two years old when it happened
they were following him home in the car. Saw the whole thing happen.
they saw the husband,
That's right.
They were following him home from the motorcycle shop.
they railroaded this whole trial into mistrials, this and that the other.
Every time she'd get a verdict that would be in her favor of her,
of a settlement,
They would find something wrong with it.
Until finally they won and,
Did they really?
said that it was the drunk driver's fault
she would have to sue him. *
Which I would think it would be some his fault,
I just felt like justice wasn't served because they had the money, the big lawyers, and she didn't,
That is a shame.
You'd think there would be enough, people who saw the accident other than his wife,
also, make statements,
they have nothing to gain one way or the other.
if they say a certain way, then why not believe them.
I don't know all the details on that,
I certainly think that we've come up with a good idea with the students coming into the jury.
I don't think that it would be such a bad idea even if the judge didn't have the final say.
Do you have any?
we do have a pet.
We have dog that we got from the,
we call it the S P C A
It's shelter.
he'd come in there as a stray.
All right.
he's a Pomeranian and Sheltie cross.
he was very well trained when we got him.
that's good.
You don't often find that,
I don't think.
we suspect that he
because a dog that looks as good as he does and is trained as well is someone that has lost him and not have been able to locate him.
if they were local people, they would have been able to find him.
There's a,
that's interesting.
the only pet that I've had,
doctoral student right now
earlier days as a student I kind of time shared on a dog with good friend of mine
it was an amazing dog,
it really was.
gotten it from the pound
a Spanish Pointer named Domino.
Kind of looks like
we trained it from a pup,
basically fully trained
it can do a lot of things.
It will get beer for you out of the fridge,
it will get the newspaper and do all kinds of stuff.
it's kind of a show piece
whenever anybody comes over, we all have to show him Domino (( )) .
I think so.
she's been dog
just, it's kind of a shame that I'm away from it now.
I actually live in Florida
I'm on an internship up here for a year
I go back down,
Domino's a real good dog.
what, possessed you to get the dog?
I guess, in one sense we felt that, nice to have a dog even though there are, complications come with it.
with our children,
at the time they were, grade five grade eight,
it was an age where good for them to have the discipline that goes having a pet.
Sure of discipline and how to care for it and things like that.
That's good.
That kind of builds some
(( )) ,
character a little bit.
that's the idea.
I think the reality of it is, that they perhaps,
it depends on the,
on everyone's discipline.
from that aspect, I'm short on the discipline, because I don't, enforce that the kids look after the dog
we've had him about four years now.
I think it,
it's necessary that individuals have the discipline to look after the animal properly,
that's something that's important for sure.
I think, do you live in a fairly rural part of the,
(( ))
Actually no,
we live area that's, probably about two and a half miles from the university.
I see.
the middle of a residential area.
that is not as good,
this dog, being a small dog it's, more more acceptable
it's not that big of a problem.
With Domino, she was full grown,
I would estimate seventy pounds.
we lived in Oviedo, which is a small town,
it's a suburb of Orlando
, a lot of room for her to run around,
she was a dog that loved to run,
that was the biggest problem I saw,
I think that's one of issues people need to think about before they get a dog is, do you have the room for this dog to run around,
I guess you can't really say for cats.
Me and cats don't get along too well, ,
that whole space issue, I think, is real important.
one of the biggest concerns.
there's a lot to be gained from a relationship with an animal,
the same time, one has to recognize the reality of physical requirements of
of the animal
the larger they are, the more room they need to exercise.
that's all part part of the relationship.
showing the maturity and responsibility to recognize issues.
(( )) ,
also, the thing with noise.
My mother, she freaks out because she's got neighbors that have dogs, that don't train them
a neighbor in Nebraska when we lived there that had, Brittany Spaniels
they're very high strung animals to begin with,
How do you get your news mostly?
Generally, I get most of my news from, the radio.
then sometimes, if I've got time, I'll be reading the front page of the newspaper
just fall off on the articles that I like.
also, since my wife likes to watch T V, sometimes, there the news late at night
with T V.
How about you?
I can hardly wait for my morning paper to come.
that's the first thing I want is the headlines.
It's really funny my sister grabs the sports and I grab the headlines .
when five o'clock comes around I just want to get in the house and turn the T V on to watch the news.
It's really weird.
I don't stay up late to watch late news because my eyes won't stay up that long.
I love to watch the five o'clock news
makes me angry when my paper boy's not there on time where I can read my paper .
I do have my radio going most of the day though,
about every hour it breaks in and gives me news too,
Do you
get one of
huh. *
have a channel that has music except for, every hour, say eight o'clock, nine
o'clock, they come on for just a little bit of the news.
as far as the actual news, I get that the,
can you hold on just for a second?
Just a minute.
. Hello sir .
I'm sorry to keep you waiting .
Okay .
I was calling from work
that was a call waiting.
like you, like the news a lot more than I do.
figure if it's something really important, somebody will tell me about it.
I catch the news all the time, it just makes me depressed because they tend to produce a lot of bad news.
that's what
yo ,
comes on first.
That's true too.
also late at night, I don't the news late at night
my wife is usually up then
I can't go to sleep with the T V on.
wish I had, more news on things like, that I consider long range. Things like science and medicine
into science and science fiction
not that the news is science fiction,
I'm more interested in that.
Things like, is NASA ready for another space shot. how hot are they on the trail of a cure for such and such cancer
a lot of the news isn't that interesting to me.
you're right.
There is a lot of it just garbage, as far as I'm concerned,
I just like the daily news,
Just, especially the weather.
I like that .
Me, too.
Although they're usually wrong .
Georgia here, they're usually wrong too.
We have weird weather systems.
like I say, as far as, actually listening to the news, it's mostly T V, five o'clock to six thirty.
that seems like a long time for news
that's how long it is.
seems like they have the local news and they have the world news.
my morning paper. I can hardly wait for it to come.
I would,
I'm not a morning person
I would begrudge the time it takes me in the morning to catch my morning news.
I get up just barely in time to get up, get ready and get off to work
at work
I have no time to read the news.
Once you get to work, I wouldn't either,
No .
I've always been a morning person to get up,
I can't stay up late at night to watch the late news
. I guess that's why I watch it at five o'clock .
anyhow. listen, I guess that's about it then.
It's been nice talking to you Tony.
Nice talking to you.
I'll probably talk to you again.
I had a friend who was in this
he said that he got calls from the same caller sometimes.
that hasn't happened to me yet.
you never know,
it might this time.
That's right.
Okay, Tony.
Take it easy.
Bye bye.
Bye bye .
All rightie.
Do you have a budget that you go on?
I sure do.
pretty much a ledger sheet
I just write down my bills, how much I'm going to have to pay
I do it per paycheck for me
which is every other week.
I include everything from groceries to insurance to car payments to credit card payments, everything.
it tends to work out pretty well that way.
I can anticipate, a little better.
I usually try to guesstimate
when the bill actually comes in, I go ahead and fill in the actual amount.
That way I know how much pocket change I'm going to have left at the end of the month
or at the end of the paycheck anyway.
that works okay for me.
my bills I usually know approximately how much they're going to be.
Each month they more or less just about the same,
same here.
very seldom are they any different.
for groceries and everything, we try to put, two hundred and fifty dollars in a little can in the kitchen
that's what we use to buy the groceries with.
we put our receipts in there,
usually that's enough.
I don't have any, small children to have anything extra come up, like, running to the doctor or something like that with them.
Luckily I don't either.
maybe my cat would get sick
usually that's not so much that it would throw me off .
In fact, I did have to take my dog to the vet the other day .
know what I'm saying,
it's worse than having a kid,
sometimes it can be.
Sometimes it can be.
I guess the worst thing I've ever had come out is car maintenance kinds of things.
I do try to build in a little extra money each month be able to do that type of thing
I'm not working right now.
I worked for P I E
they went bankrupt
I just went ahead and took my early pension.
I only get that once a month.
that's tough.
My roommate only gets paid once a month
that last week's pretty lean generally speaking
I really have to try to budget, that I don't go over that amount, each month.
I, years got paid once a month
in ways I liked it because I could go ahead and pay all my bills at once.
There's always one or two stragglers that usually they were,
for me it worked out that they were the smaller ones
I would pay all of them at one sitting
I would know okay, you can go spend this much on groceries now and you get this much a week and that is it.
(( it )) worked okay for me.
I don't know.
Right now in the mode of trying to dig out of debt, I think as everybody is
Right now it's terrible isn't it?
really bad.
it's going pretty well
I've got a real good plan mapped out here,
I also like long term Christmas club
I used to belong to a Christmas club,
last year I didn't.
naturally, Christmas comes along
that puts you behind too,
this year, I have them taking out fifty dollars a month out of my
checking account for my Christmas club.
I figure, that's going to help some.
That'll cover your gifts come Christmas time.
That'll be good,
most people are spending three or four months out after Christmas
I'm ta ,
was pretty fortunate this Christmas
I didn't get in debt,
that's good.
I'm taking like, sewing lessons to try to learn how to sew better than what I can
I won't have to go out and buy the ready made clothes anymore.
It's so rare
you hear anybody doing that any longer .
I know.
I even bought myself a (( Surgery )) ,
I just love it.
I haven't learned everything to do on it yet
I figure that will help me save
My, roommate does sew some
she hasn't sewed anything in a long time
sure that she could pick it up again.
My mother always sewed.
She tried to teach me when I was young but
not interested .
some people are, some aren't
none of those are really interested in sewing.
that's a real good way to save money,
though by doing that.
I can also, do some crafts and sell those at garage sales.
which I've been doing.
that's a good way a little extra money.
this is another way that I'm making a little extra money
that was, nice that I tripped over this opportunity
you're actually my first call.
I had not, done
guess today
have you called?
today's my first day that I could
even do it.
it is?
you beat me to the punch, here .
was about to call on with somebody,
that was great.
I guess that's about all I can talk to about budgets.
When I was working, I, bought a bond a month out of my,
they automatically took it out of my
out of my payroll.
I it and put in a Four Oh One K,
what sort of car are you interested in getting next?
actually, I love the car I have.
I have a Chrysler LeBaron convertible.
I love it.
I would get another one in a minute.
Unless I could afford what I really like which would be a red Ferrari or, a little Corvette or something like that.
that's what would influence my decision to change because I like a really sporty car.
I'd love an expensive one
I probably,
can never afford it
I understand and can sympathize with that because I also enjoy driving performance automobiles.
I currently have an eighty seven, five liter Mustang G T
that I've done a bunch of modifications make it, handle and perform better,
I suspect if I were to be able to get another car where object was,
the best car I could get regardless of money, I probably would be tempted by something along the lines of a Lotus or possibly a Ferrari.
I'm a nurse here
we have a doctor at this hospital that has a beautiful new red Ferrari.
three twenty eight G T S?
I couldn't tell you
it's just beautiful.
I go out and I love to touch it
I can't even do that because of the alarm.
You just go hunting?
I just look at it a lot .
Go out and lust after it.
Really .
it sure is a pretty thing .
have you had the opportunity to drive a Ferrari?
I'm working on it .
I really haven't,
. I did
(( )) .
test drive a Corvette last year. Maybe the year before.
It was brand new, white,
it was like a big marshmallow.
When you sat in the seats, they adjusted to fit around you.
they came in and up and out
they did whatever
we went for a test drive in that
I was able to open that up pretty good
that was really fun.
I wanted it,
I had a choice of that or my house
I thought that I'd continue,
to live in my house
something about having a place to live,
I don't know.
it's just necessary.
a tent wouldn't be bad but probably not practical.
Could sleep in the back of the 'vette.
right .
I find the Corvettes becoming nice cars.
pretty aren't they lately .
They really are.
the performance and the suspension such that they're actually a lot of fun to drive.
It's not like driving Winnebago or something.
no .
I'm not into station wagons and vans and things that people are really buying now
they go isn't that a nice van
I go,
Not really,
How about
a Greyhound bus .
Nice isn't the word I'd choose.
Maybe practical.
Isn't that a practical van.
There's some that are prettier than others
the new type is prettier than what to look like
I sure don't think it's attractive,
It's not driving a little sports car.
very hard to find something practical that's also attractive.
I don't think that happens
love mine,
bought it because I drove a friend's in Hawaii
I just went home
I walked in
I picked it out
he said take it home and bring it back if you want to,
I never did.
I just went back and signed the papers
I knew nothing about my car when I got it.
I didn't know how anything worked.
it was a completely new experience for you.
I'm sure you enjoyed every minute of it.
I've had it,
it's almost three years actually.
I put the top down everywhere I go.
I timed it when I first got it
it took
I figured there was nowhere I was to late to go that I didn't have twenty more seconds.
you couldn't get,
how long does it take to go back up? About the same time.
Twenty seconds,
That's all it takes.
it's just a button, that's it.
release it right at the top,
you don't have to
you won't get,
get out or anything.
twenty seconds you probably won't get caught in anything too substantial.
I did, actually.
Last week going to the airport,
I just hit a downpour
I was on a highway going like eighty.
I really did.
I was soaking wet.
I thought I would drown in the seconds that it took me to pull over .
it all dried out, Didn't
take long when the sun came out
it was kind of funny.
I'm sure people around me really enjoyed it
No I was just down in Austin last week
the weather was pretty nice too.
wasn't it pretty last week with the Bluebonnets and everything,
With the Bluebonnets out,
It really was.
I decided that Austin is certainly someplace that I could handle living.
A lot of people say that
it's pretty far from where I live .
I'm ready if you are.
do you stand, on,
I think that people should be allowed to have them.
if they go hunting,
my son goes hunting.
He goes deer hunting.
He goes duck hunting.
he's read books about guns since he was
probably eleven or twelve years old.
I just think that, as far as that's concerned, he should be able to have them to go hunting with,
As far as
just having handguns around have them, I don't believe that you should have handguns around.
I agree too.
as far as the ban goes and everything, I don't think it's possible, to completely ban guns.
There's just too many.
There's too many sports people out there do do these things.
technology's not that hard.
you could make a gun, from simple,
I suppose you could.
you really wanted a gun, could make one.
I think if they want one, they're going to get one.
That's true.
The bad guys are,
like I say, if they want a gun they're going to find out
somehow to get one.
no way to anybody from getting a gun.
I think there should be more control as, maybe waiting periods and things like that,
I agree with you on that because I know,
in fact I had bought my son a rifle for a Christmas present one time.
for a rifle there's no waiting.
There wasn't anyhow.
Now there might be now.
there wasn't anything for, rifles and things like that.
I guess
it was just handguns that there was a, some kind
of a waiting, two weeks while they checked you out or something.
most of these people that's got these guns that's going around, robbing people and shooting people,
know my friend is, really into guns
went a couple of times with him to gun shows, that
come through town and everything
anything you'd want,
anywhere from rifles and semiautomatic weapons and nothing.
You can just go buy one and take it home
it's easier than getting video membership card at, a video store.
know they were having a gun show about a month ago
I was just wondering how that did work, if somebody wanted to buy a gun at a gun show.
You just go and, buy the gun
There's no restriction though.
You don't have to wait or nothing then
except for pistols and th ,
I'm not sure how they do that.
I know they,
I was just curious, because,
I know the regular
that you,
that you do have to wait for pistols, like a couple
of weeks
they check you out,
then they call you up
you pick it up.
I think that's,
Which I think they have to do on rifles and things now too.
I think there
is like that.
Anyhow, in California, I think there is now.
I'm not sure,
I'm not really sure (( what )) gun laws in are like.
Now we don't have guns because
we don't go hunting or anything like that.
like I say, my son, he's,
he's always had a,
I think his first little rifle that we got him was he twelve or thirteen years old.
school to learn how to shoot it.
He goes to the pistol range
rifle range to shoot them.
He likes to go to that, shotgun thing where you shoot at those,
The skeets, you mean?
right .
He likes to do that
I don't know.
I think they should try to control it and everything,
as far as just banning it completely, not going to happen.
don't think it can happen either.
think, hadn't thought about this before
decide to ban guns, it would just open up market, a black market for them.
would just,
all the profits would go to,
Now I do believe though, like in California, if a little kid gets a hold of a gun that someone has
I think they're liable now for,
th ,
can be, put in jail and everything. owned the gun.
(( Oh )) , yeah,
the owner's responsibility?
when they have kids around, you'd think that they would be locking them up
had a friend who was policeman local borough just a small,
near Pittsburgh.
she said that, he used to always keep his guns locked up and everything like that
people make,
they forget or,
kids get in,
are, they can,
they can get into almost anything anymore .
Okay . let me see.
Unfortunately, we are not much into recycling.
do enough.
I know we don't so .
although lately I've been,
a friend of mine that I spend a lot of time with does recycle quite a bit
it's, interesting to watch some of the things that she does
she's almost had an impact on me, where she doesn't say anything to me when she comes to my house I can kind of tell it bothers her
just unconsciously stopped buying a lot of, paper plates and paper cups
I don't do that anymore.
I don't know why,
I just don't . from socializing with her
recycling done in your community?
there's not a whole lot,
there really isn't.
I know in my mother's neighborhood in San Antonio, house has,
given three baskets
they put them out on a certain day of the week
each, home does participate
we really don't have anything, close in this area do anything.
some of the communities that do, the residents are having to pay to participate in it.
Which really doesn't make sense.
Over here, they, have several private companies that you can take, recycled,
materials to.
if you want to take them all to one place, certain places that you can drop them off.
That's what I do.
recycle aluminum, glass, newspapers.
that's good.
it's nice to have, one place that you can take them all to instead of driving the glass to one place
That's another thing.
You have to
go to different places to do that.
really nice if they, came to the house to pick it up
they just were talking about a bill in Tucson about that,
it didn't go through.
I heard that most homes that do participate in that are having to pay a monthly fee to do that. Which,
I don't know,
it just doesn't make sense to me.
I guess were talking about here reducing the garbage collection in order to make that up
or something,
I guess that's one option.
That's good,
that's good.
I guess one thing they're working on now is recycling plastics too.
have you noticed that on the bottom of plastic goods, they have this little number now that tells what
kind of plastic it is?
I guess the problem with plastic is there's so many different kinds that you can't recycle,
you can't just throw all plastic into one recycler.
I didn't know that.
now they're marking,
I don't know,
there's six, seven, eight different kind of plastics
mark on the bottom what kind it is.
I guess that makes it easy to recycle
they're, trying to make plastic goods that don't have a bunch of different plastics in them, only made out of one kind of plastic
that makes it easier I guess.
that's good.
unfortunately Garland
do anything like that
read those little slips that come in to your, utility bills
or your, garbage collection
they haven't, talked about doing something like that .
Where does your friend go to to recycle?
She lives in Garland
I'm not sure she does.
heavy in that
she takes her own bags to the grocery store .
really don't think she has any paper products in her house.
just a lot of things I've learned off of her that, to start doing.
she does make a lot of sense.
Just her whole house is like wow.
I guess that's how it gets passed on. when one person, you hear
from another person
pass it on.
It seems to be catching on, slowly but surely, I guess .
my little boy a program that was really neat.
I sat and watched him.
You know the Barney?
character Barney.
They had one, on that thing
how children do that
and to save water your teeth in water
it's really caught on C
and he's only four
he's really caught on.
that's cute.
That's neat,
When you,
And keep the refrigerator door closed and that kind of thing.
He's really caught on
that's really neat .
when you start early, I guess,
How are you doing?
I couldn't hear you?
I said, how are you doing?
I'm doing fine.
I'm, just editing a spreadsheet right now.
I'm trying to figure out how I can retire without having to work until I'm ninety five.
We've been doing that too .
We're trying to retire in our fifties.
This is a very appropriate topic for our, conversation today because what I'm figuring out is that I'm going to have to put in a lot more money than what I'm making .
Good luck on that one, then.
What is that?
I said good luck on that one, then.
we've got a pretty good situation, my wife and I, since our property is already paid for.
the main things that I like about job benefits
would be availability of the health insurance and the availability of, being able to transfer the organization without having, when they cut off a system and they don't just can everybody that is working on it, like some companies I know of.
they give you an opportunity to either transfer into an project.
you work for it T I then .
You can't say?
you do.
I work for D I S D
I don't know what your talking about when you say health insurance,
Dallas doesn't pay.
It pays most of mine,
after you work (( I think )) five years, they begin to pay most of it.
then, for family, I put my kids on my policy.
It's like two hundred dollars
it's gone up quite a bit
they predict, of course, it's going to keep going up.
I wish they could go on and pay for all of our coverage, at some point.
I'd like to see child care paid for or on site child care sometime.
I think that would be a (( )) ,
it would make women go to work sometime if they knew their kids were being taken care of.
They could go visit them during the day.
that's something I hadn't really thought about because we don't have children.
I can see how it would be real benefit.
(( Yes ))
I do.
we keep a shelter, also monies that we're going to pay in for child care too.
go on and pay a lump sum
as long as you pay that amount you're okay.
if you paid in more than you actually used, and the same thing for insurance, what you predict your going to be paying for insurance, as long as you out that amount of money, you're okay.
if you pay out less, then you lose that money.
I don't like that part,
you don't have to do that option if you don't want to.
we got that cafeteria plan,
do you have that?
I don't know what it's (( about )) .
You can,
let's see, shelters you're money that you pay insurance.
It takes it out of your salary before taxes.
we got that.
Pretax insurance?
we call it the cafeteria plan,
I wonder why.
I said, I wonder why.
it's probably what the first guy who did it, called it.
He was probably in the cafeteria when he thought of it .
Let's see what else can we do?
I'll tell you what we could do.
We could prohibit people from being hired that are historically going to cost the company money. do a little bit better research on who gets hired
You mean, for health insurance?
not only just health insurance, for the whole benefit of the company.
I look at it this way. If the company folds, I got to go find a job.
if we got somebody in a position to affect the way the company performs, just about anybody in the company, and they're not doing their job or they're not capable of doing their job, then we should find (A) a place to put them or (B) boot them out.
that's easier done in a company than it is in, school teaching.
frankly, I think school teachers ought to get about ten times what they're getting paid.
Thank you .
I said, thank you.
We're both school teachers.
it's hard to get rid of a teacher if they're not good.
I know.
It's almost impossible.
there's two schools of thought on that.
looking at trying to get into a university job position as a a professor
I got about eight years of education ahead of me before I can do that
once you get that job with the university, you've got ten years of probation.
Then you have tenure.
they can't fire you.
in a situation like that, I don't know if that's good or bad.
I do know that I've had tenured professors that were just sorry.
I've also had tenured professors that were the best things on two legs.
they did away with tenure in teaching along time ago, in the public schools.
in addition.
It makes you more at ease.
you knew you weren't going to lose your job unless you really did something horrendous.
really can't fire you without cause,
the governments taken care of that,
what I'm looking at is, there are a lot of teachers that aren't getting paid what they need to be getting paid,
there are some teachers out there that aren't worth having around as janitors.
I could see a point protecting someone's position,
on the other hand, I don't think someone that teaches, say shop, for instance, should have to have degree at all.
they don't.
In some places they don't.
In some places that don't.
Do they?
get specialized education now, for instance, take computer science.
We've got kids twenty years old, right now, that could beat any computer professor at micro computer applications.
I know we could.
these people can't even get jobs doing anything besides digging ditches, because there's no comprehensive test that they can take, that would allow them step into that position without having to go through the rigamarole of college.
I went to college late on in life
I realize that hey, it's nothing but four years of endurance
you might be teachable,
know what I mean?
my agree is absolutely worthless. *
It's my experience my knowledge is beneficial,
then, like I said, I came in backwards.
What did you get your degree at?
Industrial Marketing.
what's your job now?
actually I'm selling computer software.
the two are mutually exclusive. Because, experience that got me the job that I got now, was my experience in the construction field, prior to going to college
not my degree, which is I think kind of bizarre.
All right,
what else could we change?
I'd like to see flexible hours. And teaching,
shared, job sharing,
more of that.
we've, we've already got that.
we've got a little bit of it, but not much.
It would be nice if you had full insurance coverage if you were doing job sharing.
What else.
I'd like to be able evaluate your boss
it really carry some weight,
you get to choose your boss.
Supervisor evaluations have always been a tough one. Especially in my line, because, my supervisor has nothing to with my job, except to make sure I get my check.
you get to evaluate him though?
not really.
to evaluate about him,
supervisor level is practically zero.
I run the whole show.
when I need something, I tell my boss
he gets it for me, because he knows, that I know, what I'm doing.
is something that I think needs to be expanded on, specially in the large market place. the major corporation, because so often, you get a guy who's got eight or nine or ten people working for him in separate areas
so to speak.
hard for me to, especially since I'm in marketing sales,
I make more than my boss. Because he's salary and I'm not.
I make as much as I earn.
if I don't make a sale, I don't make anything .
it's tough,
there are requirements, and quotas, what not, for me to make,
the bottom line that kind of thing is, we have a lot of people, especially in major corporations, who aren't doing a damn thing.
They're just there.
the work they do could be totally eliminated,
not that they aren't worth or not that they aren't trying or anything. But, it's just that their jobs are useless.
Take, for instance, a large construction company I used to work for. Ed Swampers.
Swampers is a guy, who's in the union.
He's a laborer.
he's assigned to,
I saw HOME ALONE with some friends just a couple days ago.
I wanted to see it, because there was, much recommended,
for months and months and months
it was genre that I wasn't in the least bit interested in,
I usually, when I hear about a movie that's supposed to be very good
even if it's in a genre I don't like,
I figure, I should go see it, because if this is, the best of the genre and I should know about it, or something like that
right, huh.
I usually come away thinking, no I really don't like this show .
I, I feel that way when movies are blown up, out of proportion,
usually people tell you how good they are,
you always, end up with expectations too high or whatever,
problem I had with the movie was the problem I've had with a lot of, I guess, Hollywood movies
which is they are, it's a formula movie,
and they're making the movie according to certain formula that's a good formula
they seem to fall short being really creative with a lot of things,
here's the situation of this kid at home,
it's a classic slapstick situation with these bungling burglars trying to get in
he did some clever things,
given the size of the house and how clever the kid was, it seems to me they could have done a lot more, basically stepping on things and yelling in pain
it seems to me they could have been a lot more creative stuff used.
I was very surprised that did do a slapstick movie, because that's, not really the way comedies are right now
all the comedies are more like jokes and, gags and stuff like that
there's not as much slapstick anymore.
I guess it was very successful movie financially,
we may see more slapstick.
it's very cheap to make a slapstick movie.
I guess you don't have to, if you look at
have you ever seen any of the (( )) movies?
Excuse me?
The French movies that (( )) .
not really,
the last movie I saw I guess, was, the one about that leaves and comes back, and he's someone different.
it's about a man, that, leaves his home and comes back to his wife,
his wife's all excited
the guy that comes back is not her original husband,
O'Gear , I'm sure you've heard of it,
it was a very famous, popular movie.
Norman Gray,
Norman Gear.
I'm not with you so far,
shoot, I'm going to hit myself after I hang up.
I'll remember the name.
anyway, that was a French movie
the last one I saw downtown,
I live in D C
Falls Church, Virginia, outside the city
a lot of times they have the, international films downtown
this, French I guess are into the slapsti ,
I guess they would like Jerry Lewis, too.
a (( ))
Yes they like your Lewis much to the chagrin everywhere.
they have this one guy (( )) who does slapstick comedy,
there's something about it that's so innovative,
he'll have trouble picking up his hat, or catching his umbrella blowing in the wind, or something,
there's something about it slapstick,
there's something about the human character in it
that's what I find lacking in a lot of, like HOME ALONE.
There was a lot of the human character when he was home alone and he was trying
(( ))
there was a lot of human character there,
when it was, the real slapstick moments, him versus the criminals kind of thing, it just sort of lost the human element
and became purely a caricature
does that make since to you?
I see what you're saying,
there's less character development, the funniness of the gag,
rather than
Did you go with kids though?
how it fits with the character , right.
Did you go with kids?
Excuse me?
Did you take kids along?
we went, without the kids,
it's was a night from the children.
I would have liked to have a kid with me, I think, preferably someone seven or eight
to get a sense for, it affected them.
especially to come home
(( )) I would have gotten in trouble the next day,
I'm sure.
was thinking about that too,
I saw that,
that's why I watched another silly movie, with my cousin, was the one about turtles,
TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES.
I saw that with my cousin, just to see what, what the kids are into
your cousin's a kid,
that is,
he's a little
that was just excessively violent.
I was worried
isn't it amazing.
it's like golly,
if kids start imitating that
they'll knock each others blocks off,
it was all bloodless
the good guys can get hit all day long
they have to shake it off
get, epileptics, that sort of thing from getting hit on their head
it's a little disturbing the violence in these films,
partly (( )) it's supposed to be a little bit more okay because it's comic book
on the other hand it makes it seem like,
I read an article one time talking about even the quote unquote realistic movies, don't have very realistic upsets of the violence.
The violence can seem very realistic,
the aftermath is usually not there.
you see people who are severely injured, very, very badly, lose control of body functions
they thrash around,
they scream,
it's just a very, very bad thing,
they never present that,
even the movies that want to show violence as real, they don't really show you what happens with that real violence
I'm not really sure how I feel about that.
on the one hand I'd like it to be a warning,
on the other hand I wouldn't want people who currently get sort of enjoy their violence fixes from these movies to start thinking gee, now we want to see the aftermath all the time either.
You're right,
it's true.
TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES was sort of the same way,
they know what they're doing,
to be successful
could make them better,
they could try to make,
as far as I was concerned, TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES could have been a classic of world theater
(( )) , it could have been,
innovative, a completely new approach to making a movie in a lot of ways,
yet it ended up not being anything particularly memorable, because story was stupid, then things like that,
they built up,
that they had this whole thing about the Master and the passing of wisdom, from older to younger generation,
a classic Greek, a sort of, European mess going back three thousand years that they're playing with
he had to (( )) ,
he told them, you were united, you can succeed, individually you will fail
there was a big climactic fight scene,
they didn't remember that,
they didn't fight together,
they fought individually,
they failed individually,
then that was it,
then they had to have the Master beat him
should have died at the end
because lesson was passed to the young generation
the older generation is not needed
is reborn to the younger generation,
on, all this wonderful mess
it still would have been every bit as accessible a movie for the kids if they had included all this stuff that, I, as an intellectual adult would appreciate,
it wouldn't have hurt the movie to do that,
it would have make it, broadened the audience that it could have been targeted for, I thought
I'm truly an intellectual snob,
to be going to these kinds of movies,
I realize that. to go to these movies and expect them to be, other than good entertainment
kind of thing.
That's true.
there's not too many good just you wouldn't want to change something,
there's always something that,
I, I'm very, I'm very critical,
I'm actually originally from Hollywood,
my father works in films
I be hypercritical
of these things,
it's unfair, because I must admit I enjoy these movies
that's what they're for,
I remember them,
I can think of movies I have less fun during
after the movie's over, I remember it so terribly well
because had meaning to me or something.
there are several movies that hit home like that.
Of course the ones I always remember are older ones
I always like the musicals, and
they leave,
those ones, that just stick in your head.
some songs with you,
I don't know what it is
it just,
I don't know if this is old fart talking here
it could be.
or something, because I'm not that old ,
(( )) those old movies seemed to have had something
was memorable somehow,
I don't know what it was.
I guess I got to get going,
thanks for hearing me rap, I guess .
Got to go take care of the children,
All right,
nice talking with you.
nice talking with you.
Are you calling from Texas, by the way?
I'm in California (( )) .
the first person I've talked to outside of Texas.
there must be Texas people, as near as I can tell.
thank you very much.
I'm from the (( )) .
Bye bye.
All right,
bye bye.
we're rolling.
what your experience lead you to advise, if my child were thinking of going to the Air Force Academy,
what would you say?
I'd encourage it.
It's a good general education for bachelor's degree.
it's where they don't have post graduate program there,
you get excellent, wide, basis of topics.
you get a good broad education out of it.
graduate the best engineers or the best English majors, but
maybe a graduate pretty good overall students out of there.
How do you feel about,
it must be a somewhat different environment from a regular college.
How does that,
how do you feel that is for someone that phase in their life?
for some people, it's good because need a little discipline, need a little reining in at stage in their life.
other people,
you kind of choke on it
depends on the person,
on the individual,
the one factor I think more than anything else in this day and age that's got to be a big factor in your decision's just cost how much you're going to pay
no matter where you go to school.
if you've been in for twelve years,
you've got share of student loans that, you're probably going to be paying off or have been
I sort of,
one of the reasons it's taken so long is I've been working
sort of and source of income and stuff,
I'm actually managing to do this with zero debt.
that's good.
do it otherwise.
I know people with that went to civilian colleges
got twenty, thirty thousand dollar debts,
you could have,
I think if there's any major piece of advice is to find a way of getting an education that doesn't incur that kind of debt.
It's not,
I remember seeing an article one time about, if the average person who spent that much money going to college just took the same amount of money and put it in an investment fund, they'd be considerably wealthier than they would be from the job they'd get after college.
really kind of crazy.
staggering when you think that, just here in central New York, is,
Hamilton College is just where I am
they're looking for twenty two thousand dollars for tuition and room and board now.
A year.
At just a small,
they are s , it is a select,
I know.
of trying to get a job there .
I heard of it.
you're talking incredible tuitions now.
I don't know how many people actually pay the whole shot.
Very few I would imagine.
I get,
I just couldn't ima ,
it's more money that I make in a year,
me being one person with a above the median income,
for New York state,
lieutenant in the Air Force now,
even as a somebody making twice what I was making, how could you put half of that into,
to your child's education
just when they make it to the college years it's,
My God, I can't imagine.
real feeling the purpose of undergraduate education is it's really the time,
you do get an education, you do learn some things,
you eventually forget most of it.
what you don't forget is the growing up.
It's really the period when people become adults.
people who don't go to college become adults in other ways.
it's the entry into adulthood, I think.
I think that the best way to choose a college is to decide what kind of environment you want to be fostered in new social skills, as you become, more of a functioning member of society.
maybe the Air Force Academy is a perfect,
as you said for someone who needs to learn self discipline and so forth would be appropriate for them.
it's also a good environment,
it may be good for someone who already has self discipline, who has a certain amount of leadership quality in their own,
want to develop that.
the s ,
it's the same.
It can benefit different people different ways.
agree with that, because I see people that I know high school,
that I still keep in touch with,
that didn't go to college
they do the same old things they did in high school and,*
The same patterns of behavior, you mean?
Same patterns of behavior,
socializing, same exact crowd that they hang with
frozen time,
of sad,
I really do.
It is.
It really is that they haven't found better that,
experiences haven't been broadened at all,
it's a tremendous thing when you sit college environment and discuss some issues and really sit there with people with disagreeing opinions
you hear all these different sides of the story
that you never thought of
that's another big thing I think people get out of college is the appreciation for of view,
or different opinions.
in high school everyone sort of tries to have the same opinion it seems.
one thing I think that's no good for anyone is these monster institutions.
These institutions of thousand students and such.
I see some freshmen wandering around in there
just like, someone from the country lost in the big city,
I don't see them getting,
when I was undergraduate, I went to a, relatively small school for my first two years
I transferred to a very large school.
that worked out pretty well.
I went from second rate institution to a higher rate institution.
the first couple of years it doesn't matter to me what the quality of the education was.
I needed to make friends.
I needed to sort of learn the ropes.
there were things like that, that mattered a lot more
I needed education that you can get, pretty much anywhere for the first couple of years.
your education's a lot what you make of it, too,
if you're alienated,
I see people at supposedly really good universities who are just having psychological problems,
that, you think this isn't sinking in.
seen more graduates from M I T
I work an Air Force laboratory
we've got a lot of, M I T graduates that are in there
they are the biggest collection of screwed up people that , I think I've ever run into.
more so, military academy grads are a strange lot, too,
I have to to that.
it's sort of rare select environment.
they have their own quirks and tolerances and,
certain things that don't bother us at all,
that would drive other people nuts
certain things that
we do,
the way we do it that drive other people nuts that,
these M I T grads are off in their absolute own world.
have more re , I have a lot of respect for M I T master's and doctorate,
It's a top rated institution
now I,
they're undergrads are like,
amazed, that's a lot of them even graduated.
I don't know.
had known a lot of undergraduates who pick schools because they want the best reputation for a school.
Not realizing that the reputation for M I T is because doctorate research,
and the professors who go there,
you're not going to see the professors
you're going to see some T A,
want, they want the best
what the best is, is,
reputation research
that's a one standard,
it's not relevant,
to what they need.
It's interesting that you mention,
I didn't think about that before when you were talking,
the service academies have the faculty, for the most part military with a few exchange,
from other,
having the military faculty is really beneficial because they see it as doing their job and spending time with the cadets there, is investing in the Air Force,
military itself, it's the future officer corps
I hear stories from friends of mine that they could never see their instructors,
they could never get extra help.
For me any time I needed extra help any time of the day
I had all my instructors home phone numbers
could call them,
you go to their office anytime.
I had some instructors that, would invite me over to their house for extended study things on weekends,
when I was having trouble with something
you won't get that at M I T anything like that.
blame the professors either,
because you look at their job description,
you'd s ,
teaching is third down on the list of importance things
Publish first,
that's appropriate if the university is trying to do serious research, because it's hard to be a researcher and a teacher at the same time.
I'd say college that has teachers.
People who really are committed to the students and can afford to be because that's their job.
a lot of factors that people don't consider
their selection of a college
I don't know,
maybe, I wonder (( they enter )) these conversations that people have been having, ...
what kind of fishing do you enjoy?
normally I like go out fishing in a boat, rather than bank fishing, just to try and catch anything that's swimming, because I've had such problems with trying to catch any type of fish, that, I just really enjoy doing the boat type fishing.
you like fresh water.
I've never tried with, deep, sea water fishing
because sea sick .
I see .
one of these days, I'm hoping they'll have some kind of medicine,
I can go out and go, deep sea fishing.
that would be nice.
I was raised on the Texas gulf coast,
in the summers,
during the Christmas holidays we'd go down to our house on the coast
I thought fish came out of the ocean
my goodness.
anything that was fresh water was muddy
I didn't learn to fish in a lake until I was into my twenties
always been sea fisher type
which is a lot of fun.
I bet it is.
There's so many different ways to catch fish.
at night you can go walking in the shallows, and gig flounder and things like that.
Which isn't technically fishing,
it's a lot of fun.
grew up fishing.
What area of lakes do you like?
I haven't done much fishing here in Texas, because I moved from Ohio,
I see.
we did a lot of fishing when we were up there.
down here, I have a brother that likes to go over on the east, in East Texas, and do fishing.
I can't remember what the name of the lake is,
he was just here this past weekend.
I could have,
think he mentioned it again,
I couldn't remember what it was.
I want to call it Salt Fork, or Lake Fork.
can't remember,
he said it's one of the best bass fishing places.
I think I know where, Lake Caddo, or something like that.
that may be it.
That may be it.
If it's supposed to be one of the best bass fishing places. They hold tournaments there, and everything.
he said that he has never gone anywhere before,
he's fished all over the United States, in which they can catch the biggest bass that you've ever seen.
I would love to go over there.
They were talking about going over there, some time in the spring,
I was thinking it would be great to go over there to go fishing, catch some bass.
I would love to do that,
they have snakes over there,
I'm not too welcome around,
want to share a boat with a snake.
I, I don't see it.
I think that I perhaps would let them have the boat or something,
I'd make some quick arrangements
That's true.
I've told so many stories about the snakes
when they pull in, there's a snake instead of a fish,
and things like that
I'm just,
I don't know,
What's the largest fish you ever caught?
I think it was only three and a half pounds,
for me that's big.
That's why I'm saying I love to go fishing because I've never caught anything really, really big.
because it's always been, lake, and,
I know they have bigger fish than that
three and a half pounds, was,
on a lake,
huge for me,
On a like that's not a bad size fish. *
that's a good size fish .
I would be impressed .
I'd love to go the (( Marlins )) or whatever in the deep sea fishing.
I've never done that.
seen it,
I have no problem going out in a boat,
it's just so dreadfully expensive,
there's just so many other ways (( )) live down there.
It's not a treat
it's what you do every day.
That's right.
That's right.
one of my favorite things was, we were forever catching crab and steaming them
out beach
and just, pitching them out, newspaper
breaking them up and sitting out there and eating them,
and then digging a hole and pitching the whole thing in it you know
that's it.
the other little creatures would take care of what was left.
That's right,
that's right.
going out on a boat, never did appeal to me simply because so much else to do.
do you live along, Houston,
down there?
I live in Dallas.
like Galveston,
I lived in Dallas.
We had a house in Port Aransas.
It's a little fishing village that is,
That's close to,
South Padre.
South Padre is on down the bend
it's like if you drew a line from Austin straight down, it would be in that region.
Small island.
been to Port Aransas
it was when I was a child.
because I have relatives who live in Houston,
to Port Aransas or then, on down to Corpus or further,
like what your talking about.
I was just wondering, we went to Galveston summer, even with all the oil spills and everything,
I was,
Was it bad?
it was horrible.
I well never, ever go back.
I don't think.
I hate to hear that.
water was murky,
I would hate to think about catching fish or anything there
I wouldn't want to eat them.
You went to Galveston.
I have a favorite hotel that extends out over the water
Is it still there?
It sure is.
I like that place.
It most certainly is, that, was, it was certain things that were enjoyable about it,
F it's lost a lot of it's appeal since then, because of all the oil spills that they have had,
it always smelled the entire time we were there.
It was,
I didn't realize that had happened,
for some reason.
We went swimming one time, in the whole week that, we were there,
the rest of the time we stayed in the pool, because the water was so awful,
of course, being raised on the water I'd never swim in it.
Swimming is for swimming,
That's why they call them swimming pools .
That's where you swim.
You do not swim in the ocean.
Not anymore.
I've seen what comes out of the ocean,
I have no desire to share,
any space with anything like that.
huge sharks
are down there.
I mean incredibly large sharks.
some of the young dread naughty boys in my family would fish for them all night
it was incredible the size of them,
(( )) the next morning they would have them strung up across the (( getties ))
just strung up,
their tails would still hang on the bottom of the (( getties ))
Now I never knew they were big,
(( )) I won't have anything to do with.
it was nice talking to you.
it certainly was, .
Maybe you can get,
how many,
have you had very many of these calls?
almost ever day.
How wonderful.
ever single day from when they started it.
Maybe I'll just be so lucky.
I enjoyed talking to you.
Bye bye.
Bye bye .
Phil, I guess a good question to ask is do you do your own work, or do you like to do it?
a year ago I bought my own house,
this has been the first opportunity I've had to, be working on my own lawn and garden,
I was a kid, mom would send me out to weed the garden.
hate it,
I sort of take pride the yard, and, how the place looks,
I don't mind doing it so much anymore.
do you just do your landscaping now and your lawn?
it's primarily just, landscaping a little bit.
I've got some, bushes around the planning, things like that,
there's little flower beds,
my mom grows,
she's an avid gardener,
she starts her own stuff from seed now,
she gets a little over zealous when she is planting these seeds in the wintertime and starting them.
she ends up with so many plants that she can't fit them all in her garden.
They have a huge yard and a huge house,
she brings them up here from Philadelphia and gives me all her extras.
that's pretty good.
sister is very over zealous, too.
She's got some really nice flower beds.
She puts a lot of time into them.
This is my first year house where I'm thinking about doing some flower beds and stuff.
always had crude ones at my father's,
this is the first time that I really have to landscape a house.
His house is more like a farm house.
It's not on a main road.
My house is on a main road,
it has nothing .
what I do do, and I've always done it is,
at my father's house, a couple of gardens.
I think we figured out total, this is for vegetables
about two thirds of an acre.
we each have a third of an acre we do.
That's a lot .
more than, that's more than the property I have right here, that you've got as a, garden,
that's amazing.
it's my dad's,
a long time
it just happens they built a shopping center next to it
they put up a nice fence,
we still have a lot of privacy,
we grow a lot of food.
I enjoy it,
the gardens are kind of old,
you have to step down in them now
because we've tilled them so much,
there's still,
my sister uses probably a fertilizer.
I don't know if that's a good thing or a bad thing.
I wish this phone would stop screeching,
Are you getting a lot of static on your end of the line?
I'm trying,
I don't know if it's my phone.
This is bad.
It's not getting any better.
I can't even hear what you're ,
it's gone.
my phone really does that,
every time I have this phone is a little weird,
it's been dropped on the floor a hundred times.
I don't know,
there was
whatever it was, there was a second there
I couldn't even hear what you were saying,
I was beating on the phone going,
Can you hear me.
I guess I was having a hard time there too.
I thought it sounded,
I guess we better stick to the subject
for the benefit of the people doing this work.
that's a heck of a pla ,
you must have a lot of different stuff you get out of there,
especially up in Vermont there, you should have, some really nice soil.
we grow a lot of, the basic, corn, potatoes.
She likes to really get into her pumpkins
see how many she can grow. Bas , corn, potatoes,
acorn squash are good winter keepers.
things the way we grow are carrots, cabbage, that sort of (( )) goes to waste
just too much.
starts her own plants.
She plants a lot of tomatoes
I let her do all the planting and putting,
do the back work, and stuff.
me a lot, too.
She puts a lot of financial.
She plans it all out.
Beans like to be near certain types of plants.
they find that tomatoes don't do well if you put them next to something like, peas,
I don't know.
because of the cross pollination,
it's just an onion and a tomato would go together, but you're not supposed to put your onions near your beans.
I guess just what scents it gives off,
they just don't like each other.
reads all kinds of books,
I wish I knew more to tell you why,
My mom put, cantaloupes and cucumbers near each other once,
the got cross pollinated by the bees
we ended up with things on the cantaloupe vines that, like round big huge round cucumbers.
that's really weird.
were like some mutant.
I've put my cucumbers down at one end of the garden
I'll make an L shape I've put my cantaloupe.
they've been pretty close together.
I don't think the vines.
have to be touching or anything,
like you say, they cross pollinate just by bees,
it's just bees and insects will do it.
Either that or my mom just had some bad seed or something.
Something weird.
it was too wet up here
we lost a lot of our root things, our squash and our potatoes,
we got half our yield.
It was really bad because of the water.
when I,
my family used to live in Littleton, Massachusetts,
when we moved in there we had really wet backyard,
my mom wanted a vegetable garden.
we trucked in,
I think it was seven,
I think that's how they measure dirt
seven yards of sand.
I got to shovel it all, lots of fun.
I have to do that,
I want to make some flower beds,
I'm going to have a seven yard truck come in with some top soil.
I'm going to,
my problem is I want to use those rail ties to build up a planter
I don't know if the creosote in the rail ties is going to do something, if I want to grow a tomato or something
in there
it seems,
I guess it'd go with my flowers.
I've seen a lot of people use them, for flower beds,
I don't know do anything,
I just don't think you,
I always thought I'd put a tomato plant in there or something weird
I don't think I could really eat the fruit off it without wondering.
I don't know if they make landscape ties that aren't treated.
you can get, you can get pressurized lumber,
they put,
that's right.
some kind of chemicals in there too.
bad chemicals in those too.
I'm not really worried about it,
it's mainly for flower bed,
to put that tomato plant in there.
All right.
I do want to have a raised bed.
I've never,
my flower gardens are always been on the ground.
so much better when it's up against the house, tiered up.
you can see it a little better
it stands out.
this house that I have is just a three bedroom ranch
I can tell you there's nothing around it, cement
foundation all the way around it. Not a shrub, not a bush.
There was a lilac tree,
the landlord cut it down said, Yeah, that's one thing you have to do is keep that lilac bush cut down so it doesn't rub up against the siding
I'm looking at him like, Jeez.
People would kill to have a lilac bush
he's cutting it down .
That's all right.
Flower beds are all right.
Anything, as long as it doesn't rub up against the siding.
Rub up against the siding.
that's what he's worried about. The trees, or a bush, because lilac bushes, grow fast.
Some people, would really like to have them,
the people that do have them, they spread, and they sprout all over lawn.
they're kind of a pain,
people who don't have them think they're great.
people who do have them,
Another thing I have that, is weird is locus tree in the back yard.
As a matter of fact there's three of them, very badly trimmed,
they aren't trimmed at all.
I can imagine if I had to mow the lawn in the back, which we said we'd do, if the trees hang down
the locus trees have like three quarters of an inch thorns on it.
they're like,
I think I've seen those before,
I don't remember what they look like.
They're a pretty tree,
walk up to them they're covered with thorns.
we're going to get a chain saw and limb it extensively so it gets the trees up overhead,
it'll give you room to get under it,
because I can just see brushing up against it, that it would
rip your skin.
It's worse than a rose bush.
Many times worse, because of course, it's a tree.
a tree (( )) is always something very nice to have.
my dad used to work on them,
I don't think I'll have a problem.
My husband will have problems borrowing one.
then you got to get him to,
if he's going to do it, you've got to twist his arm to get him to go do it.
if that's not the problem ...
did you vote in the last, national election?
haven't missed a one since I've been eligible to vote.
that's good.
Did you get to vote at the last one?
I voted in the last national one.
I'm not sure *
if I got the last local one.
sometimes local ones aren't as publicized it seems that, they should be.
you're not sure where to go and vote and all that.
there's usually nobody running against, the incumbents.
you don't know or anything like that.
feel that, a lot of people have gotten lazy about voting.
I think you're right.
also they're fed up with the system,
they say, why should I even vote.
sometimes they don't like either of the choices
for the candidates,
they think, why vote.
The lesser of the two evils is how we usually look at it.
especially in Texas .
I know it .
The last gubernatorial race awful.
It really was,
I don't know,
it'll be interesting to see how the next, few years go.
. Did they get the serious problem that half the people don't vote.
I think, definitely a problem,
I think it could get worse.
we get this lackadaisical attitude,
why should we vote,
then, lead to some serious things.
It also seems like maybe candidate that nobody wants could slip in
if, not enough people are voting.
someone in there like that, then, they could make all sorts of changes that they enough pull.
it's kind of like in Louisiana where that, guy that's like a Ku Klux Klan
member something got elected.
Kind of scary when you think about that.
who's the other guy, LaRouche , that, is sort of the, socialist, not socialist but comm ,
he's so off the wall that, he's gone in and tried to get into city elections
put away for, credit card fraud, I believe.
Lyndon LaRouche, that's it.
people will sit home and assume, that guy would never get elected.
Next thing you know, you've got him.
If you don't go and vote, then, very good chance that will
because a lot of the people like that, they'll strike a chord of the people, that so will say, look, this guy's got everything together.
I like what he says,
he'll be so far off the wall that they'll elect him.
Right, yeah.
I think that's sort of what happened with Louisiana
the guy did get elected, correct?
That's what I thought.
he sure did.
they can always fool us,
He might do a good job.
I think one thing that maybe would help people vote is if the polls were either open more days, or you could mail it in, or something like, real strict work hours, and you can only go like at seven in the morning or after work and you have to stand in line for so long
I think that discourages a lot of people.
What we do, usually, is, vote, absenteeism
I know, here, you don't have to have any reason,
you can just go and vote
the polls are open, what was it, a couple of weeks,
the hours are good
they're even open on Saturdays
and a couple of Sundays.
we've got plenty of time to go, because down here in Houston, the lines are long.
I'm in Dallas,
they're long here too.
I voted absentee one year.
I really was going to be gone.
I did it,
it was nice.
I would be tempted to do it again.
I recommend it, because you just walk right on in, and there's usually not anybody in line
that vote's just as good as, the one on election day.
I think they should change the whole system so that it's easier
I think more people would do it if it wasn't such a hassle.
I've been involved with, some of the campaigns and the state conventions Republican party.
it's really interesting to see the process as far as what goes through as far as the voting and not the ballots,
my mind has gone blank.
I've been (( )) all evening .
How they develop, what the candidate stands for
the views, everybody gets to vote on, should he be for this and on and on and on,
that would be.
I usually vote.
A lot of times I'll vote a straight party ticket just because I don't take the time to find out stand for
on what issues,
I'll just trust well, the party kind of goes along these lines so I'll go ahead and vote.
There for a while,
the, sometimes I'll stick to a certain party, depends on the guy.
if it, gets down between two, then vote for the party
because I know, something about the other guy
they're both just as bad,
I'll say, I know what this guy stands for as far as for his party,
that's not the best way
I guess it'd be best if you knew each person and what they stood for and why and everything.
it gets to the point where,
you've got to also to read about the guy be able to find the information about what he stands for.
try to determine if what you read was objective or not.
what you've heard on T V, which I think is just outrageous.
don't agree with how the media handles elections.
tired of hearing about the polls,
this is how he stands such and such a day
the way they break it out,
I think it could affect the outcome, could make it unfair.
it really could,
then, the media will blow things out of proportion and will run an issue into the ground which is good and dead,
they keep dragging it on,
it could hamper the outcome of an election for the guy that should have won.
the press has a lot of power.
They really do.
sometimes think that that should be limited more.
boy you try get into that,
you'd really open a can of worms.
they, I agree with the freedom of the press, and all the amendments,
sometimes it's for the public's own good that we don't hear things.
seems that they should regulate themselves a little bit,
I don't think they ever care to.
they don't.
I can't think of anything else really about the polls or voting, to talk about.
I enjoyed talking to you.
it was good talking to you.
All right.
Bye bye.
do you all keep a budget?
we don't.
You don't?
make so much money here at T I we just spend it.
we never have a problem meeting it from paycheck to paycheck.
It's pretty neat being that independently wealthy and working for a major semi conductor firm,
you can just spend it well.
Are you being smart,
are you serious?
I'm being facetious.
I'm being very comical.
we have a budget,
that works well.
I kind of look at it for more of a,
we have I guess,
I guess the financial planners, the training now.
We've had it for about four years here.
Got our businesses and our life in line, how to manage credit cards, how to put away, say for, money markets and this kind of thing.
there's some freebies out there
you should put ten to fifteen percent of your monthly bring home
in some sort of savings account.
That being money market, bonds, (( )) , (( )) savings, or just a liquid account
we do.
you should always have three months of your salary in a savings account in case there's a major need for that.
You should always have an umbrella permit that bridges your life insurance and your medical and your, car insurance in case you run into a lawyer and you break his arm.
He's going to sue the pants off of you.
These kind of things are about a hundred dollars a year.
these are all equivalent to the monthly budget things.
Some of them are there to pacify situations.
some of them are there to prevent things from happening.
I guess we kind of got away from about the last sixteen months as far as saying, two hundred dollars for food and three hundred dollars for this and two hundred for that because we had a child which is about a year old,
we've just been kind of working on,
I've been developing it,
it's kind of hard.
Diaper prices are going up, and formula and stuff,
That's funny.
we have a,
we're twenty eight, and he's been working at T I for five years,
that was pretty much his first major job of any, professional, because he had worked, part time during school and what not,
he was a little late graduating,
we have a nine and a half year old son,
it's because, we were eighteen when we had him,
kind of looking at this from the other aspect of,
have a lot be our age and, just everything, and having the responsibilities we've had on us for, at such a young age.
we have nice house.
People, are really shocked at how nice everything is in our house.
we don't, live in a brand new house, either, maybe a ninety, hundred thousand dollar house
we're in a thirty year old house that would probably sell for forty five thousand.
we have trade offs.
monthly budget with this, this, this, this.
we have no savings, which isn't real wise,
don't have the income at this time really to have any, because we have three debts that we're trying to pay off from both of our student loans.
We're still paying
trying to pay those off.
we have one car payment that about thirteen months left on it.
after that, we either,
what we want to do is begin doubling up our car payment,
they'll pay,
our car payment is equivalent to both of our student loans.
what we want to do is next year keep driving the same cars and, pay on the student loans, split that car payment in half and pay, double up payments on both our loans.
it'll work out perfect.
Do you have your, loans through the Texas Credit Union?
we don't.
Thing about the credit union the way it's set up is if you have two thousand dollars left, let's say, the loan.
If you go up there and write them a two thousand dollar check it doesn't all go towards principal.
They take out
the finance charge, which is kind of,
it's one of these lose or swim type of credit,
one of those loans is. Not really the best in the world,
since your husband is, a T I er
doesn't have the loans with the credit union, they're offering something that might be worth
taking a gander at.
I don't know what your percent is car payments
take any T I non credit union loan
like if you have a fourteen percent loan for a new car.
They'll take it and refinance it and put it with Texas Credit Union at I think it's a ten and a quarter percent.
Which is not a bad deal.
One of the secretaries we have down here is paying twelve percent through G M A C or something.
she's doing it.
Does she have to pay to have it refinanced?
I think they even cover that because they want you
as a
T I er to,
they want the T I er to be part of the credit union.
we got ripped off buying our new car.
We both come out of, drugs and stuff,
we became Christians about five years ago.
Right when he got home from Terrell. Right before he got hired for T I, he had gotten saved and stuff,
when you get come out of drugs and stuff, you have nothing,
you don't have anything.
You have the clothes on your back,
you might have a car, and that kind of thing.
started working at T I, really felt like God told us to buy a new car because he had an older car that was going to need to be fixed and high gas.
we got ripped off on it because we wanted it financed at four years,
we were young
we'd look about nineteen.
People still think we're about,
they ask us where we go to high school when we get our hair cut and stuff, both of us.
it's just kind of strange,
five years ago we probably looked like real ding dongs,
we went in, and the financed the car for five,
we didn't know that.
We got kind of taken, just a little bit.
we're kind of upset that we're having to, pay this fifth year on the car, because it was just not a wise thing.
we learned a good lesson.
bad of a problem only because you're paying more interest,
your payments are lower.
would have only been about twenty dollars a month higher,
he want ,
he just told me this last week that said, don't you remember I asked them to finance it at four years
they came back
they said that they had it figured for five
we'd already signed the papers.
have been there.
I don't remember hearing that.
I also wasn't the one in charge of it,
I wasn't paying as close of attention.
anyway, instead of putting our foot down about it, we just went, okay, whatever,
next time we'll do that different.
We want to next time pay cash for our car, too.
We want to pay cash for everything we can possibly do.
When we buy a house, we attended a Bill (( )) financial seminar,
he has a lot of wisdom on that, just on Biblical, principles to
He runs real estate company in Fort Worth debt free.
we really believe in debt free living and debt free car buying and debt free house buying.
if we do take out a loan on a house in the future, what we'll do is pay month on it, because you save a lot in interest, just doing that.
You save a lot.
if, if,
you need to be very careful,
If you,
because you'll save fifteen to seventeen years off the end of the loan.
to nine years off the end of the loan.
a local firm that'll actually,
in my situation, I don't have that, because the loan was not available.
I can have,
this firm will pick up my loan for a six hundred fifty dollar fee.
I can cut that much off the end of,
I'm not interested because we're moving out of the house next year.
those are all great.
interesting thing, we're getting ready to have a house built
it's not, a lot of the firms that offer,
mortgage loan firms, aren't offering, that loan.
You can ask and you can wheel and deal,
it's not as
open as it should be.
It's a great idea.
Hell, I'd love to cut ours in half,
if you figure, get with a financial person.
you can figure up exactly when like the eighteenth month of a loan, if you make like a four hundred dollar payment over and above your house payment
it'll make,
it has a magic with numbers.
it'll shave almost, X number of dollars off,
become aware of that.
loan officer through our church, too, that I think could help us better.
he does that full time with the bank,
we're going to use people that we're in a relationship with that we know, that, we know are people of integrity.
that is another thing that,
we feel like our long term goal is going to be benefitted by next time
we buy a car we're not just going to go to Toyota of Irving,
we're going to go to somebody that we know,
we're going to take someone with us older,
we didn't do any of those things.
Somebody you trust.
there are so many rip off artists here in this town.
it's really a sin,
it really is.
I got taken
the guy shorted us a half a cord of firewood,
my wife didn't know,
I stopped payment on the check,
he'd already been paid by a cashing firm.
on this,
it's for a hundred and thirty four dollars.
Absolutely pathetic.
I stopped payment on a check.
that's funny.
this last week, we bought a sewing machine at Zak's,
I found that you could get the same machine better for less locally.
Not much less, but it was enough less,
I found they locally serviced it.
we just stopped payment on the check.
I hope they don't sue us over it .
we never received any merchandise either,
I don't think it would hold any ,
probably something like that,
did you call them and tell them
we didn't even call them.
We just did it.
Maybe my husband should call today.
Might be a good idea, because you're going to get, what, check,
this is kind of ironic because I work in T I s legal department.
Do you?
although we don't have any criminal actions here, we do have other, lawsuits that do go to trial from time to time.
when was it,
a couple weeks ago I was asked to go to, jury duty
wasn't selected
for some of our cases in particular we have, very technical cases from time to time because of our patents and such.
it's very difficult for lay people for somebody who might just, happen to be selected in our jury, to understand what we're talking about.
I do think that the cases Texaco versus Pennzoil,
the Texaco Pennzoil problem,
is ridiculous for people just taken off the street to understand, and,
really should have some better way where people who understand both the circumstances and the complex issues involved, should handle cases like that.
some (( )) I don't,
you always have the option,
in criminal I guess you always have a jury,
in civil cases you have the option of whether you want a jury or not.
is that right?
in some incidences I think they have a jury,
there should be some way where it could be opted for them not to have a jury.
I was only on one jury ever,
so far in my life,
it really was a pretty trivial, case
it seemed to me all the time I was thinking of all these people in the courtroom over the case that involved, a couple thousand dollars I think,
really just, terrific waste of everybody's time and money.
it finally ended up that, even though we had reached a verdict before we were allowed to give it, they settled the case.
settled while we were deliberating.
the one thing I did approve of there was that we didn't have to be unanimous because it was a civil case.
we were split, ten to two
it was, a good thing that, it wasn't a total waste of time to have a hung jury on a case that trivial.
I've never fully served,
I've been asked twice to go down
I didn't get elected on the panel,
I know, that, for a lot of the civil cases it's rare,
if your a lawyer, there, you could be a lawyer who never actually gets into the courtroom ,
there's a lot of attorneys like that, that never get to the courtroom.
law doesn't get them to the courtroom,
even in, litigation which is doing lawsuits, is a lot of times that you never get to the courtroom itself
I think that the trial in a sense, is kind of a threat to hold over people to try to get them to reach an agreement out of court,
because it does cost so much money.
it's a shame that,
it's not so bad for the court system because the money there isn't being spent
there's awful lot of money in time and effort spent in preparing for trial only to then finally get scared enough by going to the court
usually it's the scare kind the jury because you really don't know one way or the other how that jury is going to feel.
You could feel that you really have a very strong case and that you're very much right
the jury may or may not see it that way,
you get a little there and go
I don't feel that sure
who knows what the jury will say because sometimes, the juries come down with a result and you go, gee .
I was a witness
it was absolutely horrifying to me how that operated because so much evidence was excluded,
that the jury was never allowed to hear
they convicted the defendant, could tell, very flimsy evidence and two perjured testimonies.
I knew the people involved, the people who d and the people who, were defendants.
I think that was just horrible miscarriage of justice because of the, staying by the absolute strict rules and not allowing things to be presented to the jury, that, were highly irrelevant to the case and could, I thought, have established the defendant's innocence.
I do,
although I'm a lawyer's daughter and I have lawyer's,
Oh (( really )) ?
and judges on both sides of the family, and uncles and cousins and things like that, I really think that we have gotten into much, too legalistic of society and that spend far too much on the fine points of the law and far too little on achieving justice.
it seems a lot of times their rights are so protected
what about the rights of, the rest of society,
we're protecting this person's rights who has broken the law,
we protect him so much,
what about the rest of the society,
you know, what are we doing for them,
we're kind of, forgetting about them
I think sometimes that a criminal should kind of,
if he breaks law, especially it he's a repeater, the law shouldn't just always cover for him,
in a lot of,
that some of his rights (( as )) should be taken.
in criminal cases, for instance, you can't bring up prior convictions unless they are somehow directly related to the case.
it seems to me that a jury can make a much more rational decision if they know somebody had fifteen convictions for a similar crime,
(( )) it's possible that he didn't commit the (( ))
, the likelihood (( certainly )) (( tilts it )) .
With a record like that.
(( )) that was one of the things that in the, trial I went to,
though, one of the two people who gave the perjured testimony, had a long criminal record and had been, a real sleaze bag.
he came in and was presented to the court as a (( )) standing young man who had, been in seminary to become a priest,
you would have thought the guy was just pure as the driven snow,
I happen to know his background
I know that he would have sold out his mother for, shorter sentence.
really annoying when the,
I asked the defense attorney later why he didn't bring up all this other trouble the guy had been in.
He said was barred, by the court.
we do have some problems
it seems to me that, maybe it's time to just scrap all the case law and go back to general principles .
and start over. And then make a legal system that carefully protects people
where you,
I'd even go trying to get some truth out of the witness stand if they come up with some pretty reliable, lie detector tests that we can see right then and there whether they're lying or telling the truth.
that would be (( wrongful )) .
Sure would.
I witnessed one trial many years ago when I was first, studying to be a paralegal
they barred priors on this, person
they never then told us, I guess, because priors had a reason as to why these two people were very much in hatred of each other.
they never told us why these two people had such a vendetta against each other
the crime was, attempt to commit murder,
they never told us why these people were mad at each other
you think that would be relevant.
told us in school that, crime has to be an intent, has to be not just the act but you have to intend to do it
there could be accidental kind of things,
they never told us why these two people, hated themselves or if one had done something to, really aggravate the other
there was never any motive,
I had a tough time with that
being a person who saw what the jury didn't plus what the jury did, because we were just observing, there in the courtroom,
at the end of it all, I still didn't know .
I still have a lot of reasonable doubts
I've seen everything presented
they just haven't a real complete case here to my thinking.
I don't know that I want to,
I think so,
sit on a jury like that
you'd still,
I want ask some questions here .
that's something I thought would be a very good idea of when juries come in they are told just to shut up and listen.
it seems to me that you'd get a lot more, information if your questions were heard,
if you were allowed to ask the witnesses things, lawyers things or even the judge.
particularly the witnesses.
allow them to, go back deliberate after each days proceedings come out with some questions that they want answered like the next day, bring those people back,
if they would allow them to, give broader answers, they,
it's really kind of, choreographed.
It's like a script has been written when people testify.
They aren't testifying really in their own words,
I can remember, friends of Daddy ...
There we go.
what do you think about taxes,
do you think we're paying too much?
Yes and no.
Income tax, no.
look at it this way, you've got to pay for the privilege of living here.
being rec vehicle owner,
in fact, I live in a motor home.
I'm timer
it burns gas like crazy.
I only get seven miles to the gallon.
I really resent this fact that they keep adding on gasoline taxes
they call it,
what's the word they use,
anyway, luxury tax.
They it to tires and gasoline, cigarettes, liquor.
It doesn't bother me any because I've quit drinking
I quit smoking.
that doesn't bother me
I don't think it's fair.
attacking just certain people.
How true.
Even with the gasoline tax.
gasoline, especially, in this part of the country we all use it all the time,
not what I would consider a luxury.
fifty years ago the automobile was a luxury
it's a necessity today
as hard as they try to get these public transit things going I have never seen nor heard of one that really got of the ground.
Or that accomplish what they set out
What are your feelings on it?
think that we probably are paying a little too much tax considering what we're getting for it and how it's being managed and so forth.
think there could be better system
we would get more for our money.
It's totally out of our hands
really do a whole lot about how that money is spent and where it goes
that's so true.
they say well, you voice your opinion, on election day.
not really.
you don't.
Look what happened on the last presidential election,
read my lips.
what happened they turned around and double crossed us.
you can't believe what you hear.
I think too,
one of the things that rubs me the wrong way the most is those programs that are funded by Congress and, that don't seem to have any validity at all.
they're always far out
they're studying some obscure bug,
in some other part of the world or some such thing,
our tax money pays for those things
I think that's wrong.
I agree
also think we extend too much help to other, countries
we need enough help here in this country.
That's right.
They're still people starving people here *
why should we help starving people somewhere else.
I think here lately they've been saying quite often and maybe somebody's coming to realize we're the nation in trouble.
I can't wait for,
could just picture going to happen here in the not to distant future.
We keep hearing well, we're going to receive, eight billion dollars from Japan for the, the big,
The war.
war over there in the Mideast.
many billions of dollars here and there and everything
the next thing you know we'll be turning around just like we did to Poland
just forget it.
I think that's a mistake.
Somewhere, we have to realize that we can't just keep giving it away.
another thing now they keep decontrolling different things.
First, it was the airlines then it was banks savings association,
and whatnot.
We know what trouble they got into .
the same with the airlines back in the days when they were, controlled Transcontinental or, Interstate, Trucking.
as soon as the federal government gave up control on all that, they just went to hell in a hand basket.
Prices went sky high.
Then, the case of airlines, of course, they became highly competitive
they cut each others throats until the point where they're cutting their own throat.
of course, that's getting away from taxes isn't it,
government controlled.
think another thing too that, I've had a little contacted with,
in regard to taxes let's say that, you have something that the I R S disagrees with or, says, hey, we're not going to allow that.
I think they're very unfair in the amount of penalties and interest that they can attach to that because will not only payback that that you wrote off
you will at least double that amount
by the time you get through with the,
something wrong there,
the penalties.
I can see paying the interest and some small penalty
they really stick it to you big time.
I agree.
I think the I R S is, just too powerful.
There should be some sort of a control on it.
they should be a little more humane.
the, typical bureaucratic, I guess. one of my pet peeves.
I came up with a brilliant idea how we could reduce budget.
Very simple.
Give, government employees the average number of, holidays as the,
private industry.
you think about it now,
get about sixteen holidays a year.
That's a lot.
It sure is.
I think here at TI we get, what is it nine or ten?
I haven't counted.
would have guessed eight even
you might be right.
I don't have any idea.
I remember,
it was the last time I did hear that we get about the average.
Maybe even a little more, a day or so more than the average.
government is ridiculous.
Just think of the money they could save.
paying out this money anyway.
Why not get the work out of the people.
anyway that would, of course, eventually come back to taxes.
as far as income tax is concerned, I can't complain too much about it.
I'm single,
I have no, dependents or anything,
my children are all grown
they're out worrying about their own income taxes.
have another thing that I thought about too, for instance, when you try to save money and you earn interest on whatever your investment is
we're not typically talking about big dollars
here you feel like done something good
earned your interest
then you have to go back and pay taxes on it.
the real amount of your savings on that not much.
very true.
it's kind of a vicious circle there.
they tell you to, invest it in, is it I R A s or something
when you turn,
at a took that away as far as being,
When you turn sixty five why then you pay the tax on it
the tax is a lot less.
in the mean time you've got your money tide up in a interest bearing investment.
it's not making ten, fifteen percent like a business is today.
me I'm a firm believer in that if you got it spend it.
you can come over to my house and spend it .
I wish I had some to spend.
need some help spending yours?
I just don't have any.
that's problem too.
trying to figure out from one payday to the next whose going to be the lucky one this month that's going to get paid.
That's the way it goes .
I guess we probably talked just about long enough.
let me ask you something.
Did you get a catalog or something from these people?
You did?
talked to has received one
I haven't gotten mine.
I don't know.
anyway Ellen, it was nice talking to you.
You too.
until next time.
Bye bye.
Good bye.
I think that maybe automation people that are
(( very )) discrete. Or not discrete, electronic devices.
he the one that got you connected with us?
It's a lot of fun.
You want to punch the button and go?
you ready?
Yip .
are you going to buy a car soon?
it won't be too much longer because my husband and I are both going to
when we retire we're going to buy us, new one get rid of the two that we have right now.
what are you going to buy?
we're going to buy a pick up,
we're going to buy a van.
we're going to buy an economy car,
how do you like that ?
have you been listening to (( Iacocca's )) arguments Chrysler products are the only ones all have air bags?
Does that make a difference to you?
It sure does.
I really would like to have something like that,
I'm hoping that by
that's like, right now,
my husband would like for me to buy another vehicle right now.
I keep saying lets put it off, lets put it off, because I'm hoping they'll get so many better features.
like what?
just like that air bag.
I think that thing is fantastic.
I've seen some of head on collision type things,
when they had it , and people walk away from it.
We had one here,
I guess it was about three weeks ago,
the people walked away from the, wreck,
That's (( )) .
with no scratches nothing. a few bruises.
you see the,
I don't know if it was TWENTY TWENTY, last Thursday or Friday night seat belts?
Did that scare you a little bit?
With the lady being thrown out
You got it.
and run over.
I, tell you what,
buy a car that had the seat belt where it was hooked under the door.
that really sc ,
a little more than scared me,
that irritated me,
because it surely didn't come as a surprise if the door came open the lady would fall out,
you know what the average person,
would you ever have thought of that?
now i ,
you probably wouldn't have,
I might,
the problem is I'm really into cars,
it's not a,
for me it's a real consideration,
I probably wouldn't have even though I'm really quite into cars
it's probably my main hobby.
you always think,
I don't know,
maybe you don't,
just like me, I always think these things must be safe,
that's just like,
I don't know if you've heard about it a few years ago, they said, before they had shoulder strap thing where it was just like a seat belt that goes across your waist?
All these people were,
was on one of those kind of shows like TWENTY TWENTY
these people were like paralyzed,
it threw them forward,
they were hooked at the waist,
it did something to their spinal cord
then they were like paraplegics.
ROAD AND TRACK articles on,
particularly back seat, with some, sitting in the back seat with seat belts on,
they were thrown forward, into the front seat,
there was enough stretching, the combination of stretching the spine to, the serious injury, even though still locked in the
they were forced to go,
really if your sitting in the back seat, your better off to have your seat belt on, if it's just a seat belt.
We have a van, that, just has seat belts in the back doesn't have a shoulder harness
tell me about your van.
Do you like it?
I have an Arrow Star van,
we really do.
a mini van,
we've had it,
goodness in May will be five years
they replace the engine at sixty thousand under extended warranty.
the transmission was replaced
they really are nifty,
the mini van, it's
actually, we had a station wagon before,
it's a foot or two shorter than a,
we had a regular size station wagon
it really,
we like it,
interestingly enough one of the features we like are the electric locks.
The reason that we're thinking about something like that, we took a trip in my brother in law and sister in laws to Florida
like I said, we're not that old
my husband works for the State,
after a certain amount of years you can retire.
when he retires I'm retiring.
as soon as I get my quarters in, I'm,
retiring period,
that's it,
no more .
did you,
As though
did you go to Florida in a van?
. we wanted to travel,
that was really nice traveling
I like to people that have things like that
see what they think of them,
the different kinds
I've only ridden in the one,
kind was it?
that's it.
I can't even think of the name of it now.
was remarkable, this van, even with, the,
we have two kids,
we went to Disney World
actually I grew up in Alabama,
I went to see my mother,
went on down to Disney World,
it got better than, I think twenty two, twenty three miles a gallon.
this was with the air conditioner on
four people luggage,
course this,
grant it,
been four years ago,
it's remarkable bigger vans, they're,
my boss just bought pick up truck,
he only gets seventeen miles a gallon.
has a big engine,
pulls a boat and stuff,
got the seats
is interesting, is it has, rear air conditioning.
makes a lot of difference in those of us that live in warm climates.
this one that we went in,
it did
baby what kind of van was we went to Florida in?
A what?
A Ford?
Ford what,
you remember?
. He was trying to think of what the name of it was,
vans are all,
this was a big one.
it was a big one,
real nice,
those are
it has the front and the back it has the
back seat let down into size bed
it had the two swivels in the middle, and then the two swivel chairs on the front
All right.
it was fantastic,
it got good gas mileage,
I don't know
I want something I can drive too,
I was scared to drive that big van.
the mini, that,
you'd be surprised you drive the mini vans,
(( )) more or less alike Chevrolet
of course, Oldsmobile has got one,
Chryslers got one,
they drive remarkably like cars.
have that this one had it where you would see something coming in the rear view mirror, not the rear, those little side mirror things
it would look like it was further back than it was.
the little, thing etched in it,
say objects closer than they appear or something .
does yours do that too?
I was wondering if all vans did that,
you can, install those mirrors,
we've got the big side mirrors, which are really nice.
I don't know driven a pick up truck,
six inches across not nearly a foot high,
they're really nice,
got them on both sides,
actually fold, so when you get in tight situations, you can fold them back.
that's the reason we couldn't them,
at first we were going to get a pick up truck, with a camper on the back of it,
of it,
then that gas mileage was just atrocious,
they have got, some of the newer ones with the aerodynamic features,
you can get decent gas mileage.
he talked about a van,
I said, how the gas is on most of these.
another thing was
that's the reason I said there was such a big difference in a little economy car,
I said
maybe we might have to get us an economy car to pull along
when we went somewhere.
really and truly the safety features
I wouldn't get one that,
if it had, the seat belts on the door now
I wouldn't get it.
(( )) Ford now announced I think in ninety two, they're going to put, air bags vans.
that would be good.
I think, believe safety,
I, I really do believe in this stuff,
think it can go, (( )) ,
I'm not,
the air bags are a good deal
surprisingly, they're,
you really need to do,
you need a combination of both the air bags and the,
I think so too,
and the seat belts
I don't think they should do away with the seat belts now.
I think you need the shoulder thing
I think you need the thing around your waist,
I think you need that bag to pop out too.
because I know so many people, here that have been killed in head on collisions, where maybe if they
air bag, they may still be walking around.
I think it's fantastic.
I wish they required it in everything.
Every new car that came out, I wish they would require it in it.
It would be (( )) that would do to our insurance rates, if the insurance companies not going to pay, a claim, the car doesn't have, air bags.
Would be interesting wouldn't it?
that wouldn't be fair
no because what they would do is, that's what they're going to plan on,
they would have to do it,
the insurance company would have to do the same thing.
They're given like, a ten year time limit
These cars, will be off the roads or something years
if you didn't have a car that had one, then your insurance would go up enormously,
I've got to go
my son's in a performance tonight,
I have to leave,
that's okay,
in a couple of minutes.
I think we've probably spent a reasonable amount of time.
It was good talking to you,
Good night.
All right
bye bye.
Dee, are you familiar with the Latin American policies?
to a point,
it's not my best subject.
it's not mine either,
our policy,
like in Nicaragua, I am familiar with that because we have, some friends that live on the Nicaraguan border
they are missionaries there
live there
they have to travel by boat forty five minutes to get to their car and stuff,
I know that they helped a lot of those Sandanistas refugees coming across the border
they housed them and stuff.
They have been down there about three years now,
they wrote that it's kind of weird ,
they have bats in their roof,
the bats eat the bad spiders
they leave the bats,
It's a different culture
weird down there because there's always lizards and things running around that people live there,
take it for granted
it's like we go down there on vacation,
it's like how can these people live with these lizards and bats in their house?
I think their policy with them that though, is,
I don't know,
I think,
I wish we would have just,
I'm not that up on the policy of ways.
I know that's kind of old,
I don't know,
glad that the Sandanistas aren't in power anymore because I think that they were very wicked. And, probably some of the biggest drug dealers that the world has probably ever seen,
I feel like most of the leaders in Latin America are probably,
you would be safe to say that they were just very very, big into drugs.
Very very corrupt, like the Panamanians very corrupt.
The thing about it though is the Panamanians is, a lot of servicemen down there.
American servicemen are involved,
I guess there was a scam all these guys up.
Thousands of servicemen,
got caught for running a drug ring.
like everybody is into it,
it's just greed.
Human greed.
Interestingly (( )) in Honduras,
It's very pro American.
my girlfriend used to, be in the Navy
she was in Panama.
In Honduras, very, pro American.
there's a lot of men, I don't know how many American,
soldiers are there,
there's a lot.
trust them either, because you think, you don't know how corrupt they are. they keep people in power like the Shah of Iran and,
things like that,
it's the lesser of two evils,
they will probably say this is the lesser of two evils.
I don't know how corrupt the Honduran government is.
they need to have more checks and balances in their government to get rid of the corruption. But I think first though,
I don't know,
repentance on the leadership of the different nations for all atrocities that they commit and the drug dealings, drug crimes,
I feel like a lot of the leadership in those nations are so engrossed in the drug crimes that until they repent or they are moved from power, that
because there are so many of them that the next one to come up, if you just knock one off and then have another one,
I know a lot of those nations, there's, Brazil, I know, is like forty percent evangelical Christian. Not just go to church but, really on fire for God,
they are just surpassing by the drugs.
it's just incomprehensible,
God is going to honor that and that he is going to put in some good leadership,
I know, the president of, I believe Costa Rica is a Christian.
virgo church in Guatemala City.
The church is in real close relationship with him.
he is a former president of Guatemala.
He's an elder at virgo church
God is doing something
he is raising up some leaders
the people want him back as president bad,
they have a rule in Guatemala that he can't have another term
people are trying to override that, not just the Christians, but all the people because they see when a righteous man is in authority, the people rejoice.
that's the thing,
going, have to,
that's the undoing of everything,
it's the,
we have no morals, when we, talk about the crime and all that in the city,
it's just the kids have no morals.
That's the thing that will eventually,
if anyone is going to be saved.
It is having a good moral background.
it's funny you mention Costa Rica, because one of the most successful and peaceful countries,
in Central America.
I was reading an article in the, National Geographic
I don't know,
I don't think they have any more money than any of the other countries,
they don't have oil or anything,
they don't have big tourism.
maybe it is their faith that enables them to keep the crime out.
I know that Costa Rica, they don't allow anybody immigrants?
They don't allow anything like that
like I could not go to Costa Rica and live as an American citizen.
They would not permit me to live there to work.
They wouldn't.
Their jobs are there for Costa Ricans.
They don't allow people to move in, like less nations,
probably take a lot of refugees from other countries either.
take the job.
they don't take any.
I couldn't even go there.
My husband had to receive all this special permission to go,
even with, in, inner company, transfer, or something,
I have another friend in, Costa Rica that,
she was born there.
She's Costa Rican.
I guess I do know a little bit.
I went to Mexico City one time and stayed.
I have been there twice and stayed
was just really sad.
a lot of it though is their debt.
I think that we should not loan them anymore money,
that if we still want to give them money, give them money, quit loaning it to them.
You're not going to get it back.
Don't be indebted to anybody.
Don't be the loaner or borrower.
It's just not good.
give them money then give it to them,
quit loaning all the money out.
Which I don't think we are loaning anymore now,
that's how we got into a problem.
If we got, the,
in the hole by us loaning them all of these billions of dollars.
That's common sense,
you could just look at it and say they're not going to be able to pay us back.
also, Mexico, we will loan the money in
a lot of people,
were just stealing it and,
building these beautiful homes,
and nice ranches and things.
(( )) .
it's like we are partly responsible for their problems by loaning them all that money,
that was really stupid on our part to even loan it to them.
You don't loan money to people like that.
you feel like you need to give them something to help them out, fine,
you don't go making billions of dollars of loans in, to people that you can just look at the situation,
They know they're not going to pay it back.
and know that they are going to be capable of paying us back,
that puts a bondage on them.
It makes, pressure on the nation, and on the people, and on the leadership, and makes their inflation go up,
it's just a big mess.
Did you go to Mexico City, anywhere near when the earthquake hit.
I knew people,
I was there before that,
I knew people,
I got a letter from a friend of mine that I had met there, who the apartment building was destroyed
they were living in a tent,
it's kind of weird,
To these people who were on U S dive, the Mexican diving, we went to the pool together, and watched them dive and all this,
they were just normal people, weren't squatters or poor people or anything that,
all of my friends there,
none of them that I know of, got killed in it.
they're all Christians though.
God really protected them.
See that broke out a revival in Mexico City. That C B S news and A B C never told you about.
There's been a real revival in Mexico City since that earthquake, because sin in those nations and of witchcraft, a lot of witchcraft. A whole lot of witchcraft.
I can imagine.
So, a lot of it in the name of Christianity.
There's a lot,
they call themselves Christians,
they are over there doing witchcraft and stuff, and just a whole lot of the generational things too, like the Mayans and the Incas.
You can't find a trace of them because God totally destroyed them for how wicked they were.
yet, they are revered and honored and almost worshiped by
many people,
even now in America, we wouldn't know the truth with all of Indian groups that were totally removed from the face of the earth, because of how wicked they were.
I've been down to the pyramids
I have climbed to the top of the pyramid where they used to take a beating heart out of a young thirteen year old boy,
they hold it up to the sun God,
that's pretty of heavy duty.
there still blood stains on the altar
has it worn away through the years?
I don't think so.
The little box is black on the top of the pyramid in the sun.
It's black,
you can't really tell,
it was kind of weird, D you know,
you think, wow there is where they did sacrifices to false Gods.
Do you get spooked, you feel,
do you get butterflies in your stomach when you go there?
at that time, I kind of did.
It really impressed me, just feeling
I wasn't a Christian when I went there,
I think that a lot of generational things
I think, that God sees I'm praying,
that keeps the Christians that are beginning to rise up there to be able to pray, because that does affect that things, in your background.
Hi, Maureen.
How are you?
All right.
do you have a family budget?
we probably should,
we haven't.
why don't you explain to me some good tips about what you've done, which you've found useful and workable.
We do a few things,
I have to say both from financial backgrounds.
an accountant.
he has an M B A,
we were sort of, keyed in on expenses and things like that.
coming from that background, what we pretty much do is live on a cash budget.
Every month, my husband, goes to the credit union and withdraws, X amount of dollars for the month,
then that money is used during that month.
We have a certain budget.
For instance, I control all the household expenses, the groceries, the haircuts, the gasoline for my car, any miscellaneous expenses, baby sitting, things like that.
if, it comes the end of the month and I don't have any money, we don't buy any more milk .
we've gotten pretty good at it,
we've been doing it a couple of years now.
budgets are realistic
they are not so stringent to make us feel uncomfortable.
really try to stretch dollars here and there, shopping, at warehouses sometimes, at Sam's and things like that.
a cash budget
tight come the end of the month,
generally, we always make it.
What do you do for the surprise things that you don't necessarily plan for,
the, are sometimes several hundred dollars, like, tires for the car or car repair of some sort,
or, dental bill or something that you're not prepared for?
most of our medical things, we don't, have to worry about, because of insurance
relatively small.
we've been lucky.
In the past we didn't have that problem
right now we don't.
For the other things, the things that crop up, that we aren't really expecting, we have different funds set aside for different things.
we have a car fund
we put a certain amount of money into that every single month whether we need to or not.
can't really remember what it is.
Do you kind of continue, call this a part of savings account or a different savings account
It's all part of the savings account.
We just keep track of it on paper.
a certain amount goes straight to the savings account.
We decide, okay, let's say it's a hundred dollars.
every month fifteen dollars is for car fund.
Ten dollars is for vacation fund whatever.
constantly do that, so that there's a buildup of money for those things if something does come up.
I know that my washing machine is going to go any day.
we have the money set aside,
if it does it's not going to kill us.
we're pretty disciplined,
it makes those surprises not so difficult to get through.
then, your pay, what kind of a percentage do you basically keep out that you think that, will cover all of the expenses, kind of thing?
percent, do you then save or something?
we have a lot of different things.
Right now, we save about twenty five percent pay.
goes toward different things,
it's vacations like I said, for, emergencies for car, breaks down, something like that.
we also put money aside for our kids college.
Neither of us had any help with our college degrees,
just this last month we paid off my final school loan.
We're starting our kids a little bit early.
Do you, use a lot of credit cards or your checking account when you go out and buy things?
Checking account a lot, not so much credit cards.
Now several years back I used to use cards, all the time, kind of thinking, it's on sale, it must be a good deal.
There have been times that I have been bad about the credit cards
pretty much now, we don't use them too much.
If we travel or something, yeah. But,
Standard, we usually don't.
if is a purchase, then it's paid off when the bill comes.
it isn't any extended,
it may be that I picked up something at the store,
then when the bill comes we always pay it off then,
it's not any, build up on the charge cards at all.
That's good.
that hasn't always been the case .
I'm kind of,
I feel at least better now that I have finally gotten some of those things, in the past,
I don't have, big cumulative amounts due to those charge cards, because that interest rate just is a killer.
it's not deductible anymore.
I've never been in the situation of itemizing anyhow.
pretty much when go to the grocery store or something I just always write checks.
that for a long time
it got to the point where we had no idea how much we were spending on things.
it seemed like we didn't have enough money when things cropped up,
we decided to put ourselves on a cash budget.
the first time we did it, we just took some arbitrary amount that we estimated it would be,
then we kept track of everything for a month.
how much we spent on food, how much we spent on gasoline, how much we spent on everything,
from that built, a cash budget.
now, I have,
I don't remember what it is now, four hundred dollars for the month, let's say.
some months I may spend three hundred on groceries and a hundred on everything else,
some months it may be different.
It's not as though we feel like we have to keep ourselves, down to the dollar or the penny in certain categories kind of thing,
the way we set up, the amount that we want to save and the amounts that we have to spend for, utilities and, the house payment and all that.
those are things you don't really have much control over.
the cash budget just fits right in there ,
like I said if we don't have, we also set aside money for entertainment.
again it's a set amount every month.
on special occasions, birthdays and things like that.
we still have fun on things .
we are in the process of trying to buy a house,
do you know, how did your budget work
did you have a budget to, get your down payment going to get a house?
not originally, because did buy, when we bought our first house, it was at a time where you
the kind of loan we got, you really didn't have to put down anything.
we got into it fairly cheaply,
after we sold the first house, we were left with enough cash that there was enough to make the down payment on this house.
got out of that one pretty easily .
I just keep thinking all the time
really rough to keep yourself on a strict budget for a long long time when priority, is to save for the house.
then it's awful hard to really scrimp for a long, long time and keep putting all the money into that down payment.
You feel like you want to live a little bit in the meantime.
I know.
That's how I feel sometimes about my kids' education,
jeez, they are one and four .
We have got a long time to save,
my husband, disciplinarian when it comes to that money usually.
no .
I know,
there are times when I sit there and I think, wow, we make X amount of money and where is it.
you look around
you go,
What do you do with it,
I know.
where is it,
haven't made, big purchases
that's the easier thing to see,
if you can see a big purchase and you go okay, this is the year that we bought the couch or the T V,
or something like that.
all those, just monthly payments and stuff that just go out the door
there's big chunks of your money to pay the utilities and the gas and the groceries,
and stuff.
That you don't have kind of things that's
amazing how much we spend on some things.
My husband cut himself down to ten dollars a week for his lunch at work.
that's all he has,
he has a ten dollar bill.
I'd say at least, two usually three times a week he takes his lunch.
The other times, he'll, I don't know go out somewhere,
eat in a cafeteria or whatever.
he keeps himself on that,
he found so easy to spend five dollars a day on lunch.
That's a hundred dollars a month on lunch.
twelve hundred dollars a year just on lunch.
When he can take a sandwich,
how about you, are you an exercise fanatic?
Me either .
I'm definitely ,
I do like to walk.
Do you?
Since T I has, instituted that, walkabout,
I have gone out and started walking even more, bought me proper shoes and everything to get started,
and, park in the boondocks.
It was so funny the other day,
I took some guys to, to lunch
when we came back they said "Oh, there's a parking space real close," and I parked way out in the boonies,
Way. *
I said "you can walk off your lunch."
That's the way to do it.
I'm kind of like you,
I've never really gotten into it,
I finally decided one semester, I'm in college and I'm taking night classes and I still don't have any of my P E classes,
one semester I thought, okay, that's what I'm going to do
that will get me where I'll have to do it,
they were offering walking class,
where have to walk, like for every mile you walk and every so many minutes, points,
you have to go in once a week and log your points
it's not you can do the class anytime you want,
at the end of the semester you go back in and final exam is a three mile walk.
if you walk it in this many minutes, you get an A,
this many minutes you get a B,
I thought, this will be an easy class.
I did it for a long time
about the middle of the semester I ended up having to have surgery on my foot,
this has been a couple of years ago,
I just ended up having to drop the class.
by the time the final came around, I wasn't even where I could wear a shoe yet,
let alone walk three miles,
that was the only time I have ever been able to start an exercise program and really stick to it,
because then go every week and log in what I had walked,
my teacher looked at it every week,
other than that kind of get in the mood every once in awhile, say,
okay, I'm going to start going to aerobics now,
There you go.
I'll go for two weeks and go, this is for the birds,
this is too much work.
I have noticed too that, when I started that I did tone up, like all over,
it didn't get the upper part of my body,
what I do, is I bowl.
I am a fanatic when it comes to bowling,
I used to bowl five times a week,
I really loved it,
I still bowl at least once a week now, on a league, a,
I'm bowling on the T I league.
I've noticed that what I do is that I have my towel that sits on the floor, so that every time I get up to bowl, I have to bend over to pick up my towel
that way I get the little extra exercise.
I'm always explaining to people, I do little things like that, like, take the stairs instead of elevator,
I do silly things like that versus regular program that you would have.
you're amazed at how much that adds up.
It sure does.
I was on, Nutri Systems for a while,
that is one of the things that they really stressed doing,
when you come to your Nutri System meeting, don't park in the parking place outside the front door,
park at the other end,
they things like that too.
you're sitting watching T V at night,
during every commercial get up off the couch,
There you go.
go to the living room and get a glass of water, go to the bedroom and make the bed, go do something,
but get up during every commercial. And, things like that.
you'd be surprised at how much just that little bit adds up,
That's true.
just gives you a little more activity
That's true.
especially when you're like us and don't really want to do it anyway.
I used to,
I really did, years ago
I was thinking about that not too long ago that I used to walk
and not only did I walk
I used to watch all those exercise programs on T V,
I would tape them,
then I would do them two times a day,
I don't do any of that kind of stuff anymore.
I think having children everything just kind of, everything goes by the wayside.
I can't use that as an excuse because I didn't do it before
I had mine either.
I've never been,
more into, sitting, than I am ,
Me too.
I have found that with,
I have a two year old,
I have found really though, I'm kind of the opposite, I'm more active now with him, than I was before,
because now, he'll "I want to go outside" and I'll go outside with him
we'll walk up and down the street,
we'll go to the park
I'll run around with him and stuff like that,
I'm getting exercise that way than I ever did before I had him,
that has helped a little bit,
I don't know.
Just chasing him around the house,
Oh yeah,
will be plenty for you.
mine are older now, doing, their own things
You've kind of gotten out of that little stage there.
I have a thirteen year old and an eleven year old,
lucky you,
you're getting into even more interesting stages.
We're actually going through the same stages the two year old and the teenager .
you watch it'll be exactly the same .
Same thing, at about thirteen .
It does,
absolutely does,
How interesting, I can hardly wait .
I know, I just know you can't.
I don't get as much exercise as I used to
I'm more aware of it,
that I'm need to do this, that and the other
I try to do combinations of things but not, like go down to the President's Health Club, like I see all these people do.
walkabout's a good program.
It is,
it is.
It really is,
when they first started it, got all the information, of course,
just like everything else, I was real gung ho with a friend of mine,
"Oh, we're going to do this, we're going to do this,"
we did do it for a long time,
I started school,
two nights a week I was going to school
the other two nights a week my husband worked,
I had to pick Ryan up,
there's always an excuse,
to not do it
it gets worse,
it doesn't get any better.
I'm sure,
I'm sure.
because I'm constantly running my children around someplace
that's where I actually get my exercise,
is running them from here to there,
here to here,
in the car.
to the mall, to the movies, to the friends, to the,
There you go,
that's it,
that's it.
Sounds like fun.
it was nice talking to you.
it was really good to talk to you.
we'll talk to you later.
Take care,
talk to you later.
Bye bye.
do you fish?
My dad has a lake cabin,
we go there for the small lake, just outside of the Dallas Fort Worth area.
It takes us about three hours to get there.
we go, and we fish,
we catch a bunch of junk . to talk about for the most part,
it's fun.
from a boat or from shore?
From the dock, from shore.
that's nice.
mostly catfish
mostly we catch carp.
If we're doing good, we catch a catfish or two once in a while.
we go ahead and eat those.
we've never caught enough to really have what you'd call a fish fry.
What we normally do is just, go ahead and clean it up, and then, put it in a bag and freeze it.
somebody takes it home and eats it then when there's just a couple people instead of a whole crowd.
there's a pretty good crowd there,
we don't ever catch enough to eat.
Carp is usually pretty much fun.
I've caught up to about an eight pound carp on pole with twenty pound test line.
a pretty good fight.
that's a lot of fun.
A real light line, real light rig?
that sounds like fun.
They fight hard.
Fish in Colorado different than that.
Mostly trout in the mountains.
in the rivers and stuff?
mountain streams and rivers.
Are they good to eat?
much there,
you mean size wise they're not very big?
by and large, no.
they're big fun.
I've been,
is that mostly, fly fishing when you're doing that
Are you fly fishing
are you using a bobber?
I'm a fly fisherman.
cast a ways.
I'm not highly proficient,
it's fun.
I've never even tried that.
if I don't have a reel with a button on it, I tend to get so much backlash, it's not worth the trouble .
let me explain fishing to you then.
You're not casting a weight on the end of the line?
You're casting the weight of the line.
With the little thing on the end.
I thought it had a weight.
the fly on the end weighs nothing.
It weighs less than the line.
what you do is, you strip off, four, five, six little rolls, coils, of line into your hand.
you whip the line.
As you whip it, over your head,
or side to side, you slowly feed out more and more.
you're fishing downstream so it will carry some?
You fish upstream.
you fish upstream?
you let it carry it downstream.
you reel it in,
you do it again.
You hope that they think it's a bug and,
and eat it.
Jump at it.
from what I'm seeing and hearing and all, big pattern that's really looking forward for spring is the grub pattern.
That's a fish?
looks like a grub.
whenever you,
a lure, a fly.
I see.
Whenever you have something that looks like something else
it's a fly, you call it a pattern.
there's bumble bee patterns
bumble patterns, there's mosquito patterns, there's wasp patterns, there's grub patterns.
Did someone just come up with this design,
you're going to make one for yourself,
are you going to buy it?
You can buy them.
I've got some.
They seemed to have been hitting real heavy on it in Fall.
it's just, that, that just happens to be what the fish like this year,
You know how that changes, the phase of the moon
I guess so.
We tend to use just bait.
And, a few lures,
bait tends to work the best, just some blood bait.
I'm from west Texas.
are you?
Where are you from?
I'm from Midland.
another west Texan.
I went to college at Tech,
You've been out to Buffalo Gap fishing.
I've been up there.
I didn't catch anything,
I've been up there .
It, it's kind of nice way to get away from everything for the day.
it's fun.
It's lazy.
Take a picnic lunch.
I used to do that with my dad.
Every once in a while we'd go out on a Saturday and just spend the day.
Before it got too hot.
there you fish mornings and evenings.
And nights.
we do most of our fishing at night.
Just from the heat of it all.
That's one advantage you've certainly got on us.
It, at times, gets incredibly hot here.
It does?
I've only been up there once.
In the summer.
I've been up there twice in the summer.
both times it was really pleasant.
In fact, it snowed on us when was that?
We were in Mesa Verde Park,
It was just before July fourth.
it was twenty eight, twenty nine degrees.
We were out in this silly tent with regular little sleeping bags, not knowing any better .
here it went and it froze,
it snowed on us.
We did not know what to do about it.
Fishing is not dragging fish out of the water.
a total experience, getting out in nature and,
hearing the crickets, and listening to the birds and,
seeing the squirrels and,
camping out, and eating out,
of doors
Do you have to,
do you wear waders when you fish?
I probably ought to.
I just freeze.
it must be a little bit cold.
That's cold water around there.
ankle deep or standing on the bank, and slipping it out there.
Do you have any,
I always intend to just stand on the bank and just kind of slip it,
I see.
out there,
you know how it is.
The water's kind of,
a little more carried away with it,
you move a little closer.
you're in to it just a little bit,
you splash in
the next thing you know, your knees are wet.
Do you have any kids that you take fishing?
got a stepdaughter.
She's real sweet.
at times she enjoys it, at times not.
A fuzzy little dog.
I have a three and a half year old and a one and a half year old.
the little one, of course, could care less.
The, three and a half year old has just gotten to the point,
we got him a little pole last year,
his big thing last year was throwing it in the water and reeling it up .
That was what he considered fishing .
This year, he's gotten to where he can.
were at a friend's, stock pond, we were out at their farm,
they had been fishing and let him use the pole while walked off a healthy hundred yards or so and let him fish.
he started trying to cast it.
was kind of getting there
you guys sure want to be out of range.
He's at a dangerous point right now .
He understands the mechanics of pushing the button and throw, but not necessarily the direction it's going to go in.
It takes time.
Last year, we had just a wonderful trip up to Travers Lake. *
it was cold, and rain the whole time.
we still had a good time out,
of the deal.
that's good.
Colorado is a beautiful place to live.
My husband would like to live there,
I don't know. All of our family is here
you've got to have,
you've got to work for a living.
T I is up there,
that part of it would probably work out .
What division you all in?
What division are you all in?
We're both,
I was, military,
he's division three.
It goes back and forth.
maybe division one right now.
He's in computers.
the only thing up here,
he's in school,
is division one.
and everything else.
I have some friends who work up there.
Kathy and Kevin Guy.
they like to fish.
They've been inviting us to come up there in the summer.
Her dad has a cabin,
they go fishing, up there.
that would be neat to,
fishing is fun up here.
It's not,
try it some time.
It seems like here is not as good as on some of the better lakes there.
it is fun.
long as you have a good time, that's the main point
experience better up here, I think.
it seems more relaxing, there's more to look at.
Definitely more to look at.
there's something about listening to water run that's relaxing to the soul .
just sitting on a nice hot lake,
The only thing you've got to watch is when that creek comes up.
We camped next to one, one time when we were there a couple of summers ago.
we figured we were up a long way off.
it rained that night,
we thought, wonder how far off we are?
we got up the next day,
that creek that had been fifty or sixty feet from our site of our tent was now about three feet away .
it's like, maybe we ought to move just a touch.
that was kind of funny.
is interesting to watch that water rise all of a sudden.
I just love the way it looks.
I could almost just watch the wa ,
have gotten out trips before and just stopped and watched it because there was so much,
if you were there.
it was,
one time we were there,
I guess it was late May,
it was really your spring almost,
even though really summer down here.
I guess the creek, the mountains were really starting to melt,
the creek was just wild, just running.
all the white water and noise the,
it was just beautiful.
I ,
it gets foamy almost.
it's just pure and pristine.
And the froth
I have two children
they're older now,
I found it very difficult to find good child care when I was looking for a place to for stay while I thought school,
I wanted till they were about two years old I preferred that they had an individual take care of them in a home
that's what I looked for
I was lucky enough to find one right across from my school,
that worked.
that's good.
that worked out real well
when they got older I wanted them to be in a school type situation, I think they were both three when they started where they could learn to interact with kids and,
and be around kids their own age because I think that would prepare them for school also, (( it's real important )) ,
that they do that, that they get that preparation for school,
I had,
I have switched schools several times because I really didn't care for what was going on at that the school.
I wanted them to learn to play I didn't academics forced on them at an early age.
that, that's,
you mean you switched schools for the kids.
We ,
I'm just recently married.
I don't have any children.
Though we plan on having them soon
I think, that that's probably one of the biggest difficulties,
I think, I'm lucky though that, my wife will probably not have to work while our children,
are under four,
or five.
(( )) I'm a college professor,
that's also,
it's nice for me because, most of the time you have much flexible hours so that I could probably work two or three days a week,
and then one or two evenings,
so that if my wife go back to work part time, there probably will be a possibility that I could stay home two days that she would go to work and that I would have to teach at night.
that's, wonderful.
it will probably workout real nice for us,
I think we're very lucky because just my job sort of builds in flexible schedules,
That's wonderful.
I can even teach on Saturdays and,
and things,
like that.
I do know that my brother and his wife have a terrible time finding, child care,
one of the things they made in,
they're number one priority was that, they're children didn't have to leave their home . *
wonderful too,
my sister in law is clinical speech pathologist,
she is als ,
I guess her most recent position after she returned back to work, she applied for a director's position and got it.
I guess she's very well qualified for her field I guess
even though she took off two years for,
I guess four years all together,
it would be three years,
how old's (( Kayla ))
I guess she took off three years all together, cause I guess they have a four year old,
my nephew is almost two,
I guess she took off three all together
when she decided to go back to work, she was able to find good position and pay for somebody to come into their home.
that's wonderful.
I think they were really lucky there,
I think they've lost this woman not continue.
she won't do it in the summer because her kids are home from school.
I don't know what they are going to do.
that's an ideal situation,
not many people can afford,
I think,
something like,
I think they professionals unlike me married, my brother's five years younger then she is,
she was probably twenty seven when they were married,
she already gotten bachelors and masters and established herself in a,
profes , in a practice almost.
where, he then they waited a couple years
he got himself pretty far along, I guess they didn't have kids until he was about, twenty six
by that time she was so well established,
I guess it made it a lot easier.
I think the longer you wait it is,
I do to.
if you have professional occupation where you can change.
are just so many people out there that aren't that,
That's right,
that's true,
I'm a single parent,
I, my got a divorce, when the children were small
I, was a teacher
I, still am teacher,
it was really difficult to find affordable child care that I wanted,
where I could,
definitely. *
have piece of mind when I taught school *
I knew my kids were being taken,
Were safe. *
care of.
wanted them to get something out of it,
I just didn't want it to be a day where they went and slept and ate cookies and,
(( that's it )) .
so important I guess it's so funny now with schools, they don't take kid into kindergarten, I guess when they're five,
sometimes they flunk kindergarten now.
They don't let them into kindergarten unless they can count to ten and know their A B C s
I think that's so funny because, , know if I want
school's very important I'm an educator myself and my wife teaches, *
it's a very important part of your life
I hope to read with my kids,
I don't know if I want my kids to go to school. At four,
or three,
I agree with that.
I can see that when you make that point.
the thing is,
I teach this grade and can see very readily the kids that didn't never learn socially how to get along with other,
they're the ones that are having problems not only getting along with the other kids but academically,
because there's to many things in their way, *
I want my
I wanted my children
they did learn along with other people.
that's a really important point.
I feel a lot of maladjusted adults
I bet if we trace back to their,
early childhood we could see some, times they didn't get to play or be with other kids their own age really learn how do get along with,
I think that's important
seen the same thing
think you're exactly right because, I've gone ou ,
before I was married I went out with a girl, ,
, about two months I realize this girl really has some deep set emotional problems.
I bet,
they could be traced back to just being moved between day care centers when she was one and two and three years old,
and always being a bit snippy and spiteful.
I bet you could trace all the way back .
I bet you could too,
because kids have to learn how to get along with other people,
if they don't they just don't turn out to be really, good adults or,
That's true,
successful adults I should say,
it is a big problem
I have lot of friends right now that, have young children
they daily have problems whoever is taking care of the child,
they switch a lot, which is not good for the child either.
that's true.
that's really true.
you need,
cause you need that consistency when they're young like that,
it would be ideal like hope when you have children,
your wife gets to stay home,
I would given anything if I would have been able,
to stay home with my children.
think very lucky.
of having, flexible higher education provides a flexible schedule.
Especial ,
I teach a computer classes
one of things where I'm paid a little bit better then a History or an English professor
I'm also,
they have vocational type courses on weekends,
almost everywhere,
you can take you can teach two three hours classes on a Saturday,
which means,
that, whole week's worth of courses
that lets you be available three days during the week,
you be will home with your kids
it's really funny that picked this career when I was in college because, I think with my commitment to family and,
wanting to spend more time with my children,
You're very wise.
because my dad had very, nine to five type job,
with, forty five minute commute into the city, and a forty five commute home,
by the time he got home he was so tired
he was all rung out from the day,
I think missed a lot of, our up bringing.
my mother
came from a family, my mother stayed home until we started school.
it's funny I don't think she had to work until we started school I think teenagers become much more expensive . *
don't they though that's what I have right now , *
thirteen and a sixteen year old.
It's probably costing you a fortune.
it is,
they really are expensive,
My goodness, you want them to be able to drive the car, the insurance bill.
Th ,
most of the area where we live in most of the kids have cars.
right now I'm looking for a little truck for my for my son,
that an older, , truck
so I can afford it,
just look forward to him helping me out because (( )) I for years just car,
drove in carpools all over the place
my parents did a lot of that.
it will be nice just to be able to have him say will you go to the store, will you take his sister somewhere,
That's right.
something like that.
just to save you trips to and from,
ball games and athletic events,
and activities at the school.
That's right.
isn't that something how, you think about child care
it lasts along time. *
It, does for ever.
lasts a long time.
when you get through with your own you've got grandchildren,
It's not ending is it ?
You think we've talked enough time?
normally they come in, *
they come in, this is the first time I've done this.
they'll come in in ten minutes normally and stop us. *
in ten minutes, you have to talk that long.
you don't have to
you go the length
sometimes if it's a very busy time period you'll go about seven minutes.
Depends on how old the tapes are at that time.
I see.
I see.
Are you from the,
where are you from?
This is Baltimore, Maryland.
I'm from, Plano, Texas outside of Dallas.
most of most of the people I talk to are from Texas.
that's where T I is .
I've discussed,
That makes sense.
I've discussed,
Guess we can go ahead.
I guess it's,
since living in Dallas it's always so hot, in the summertime, I just, wear lots of shorts, because I don't work during the day.
do you work?
I do work.
I work at a manufacturing plant,
I wear a lot of blue jeans,
and T shirts.
occasionally I have to get dressed up and wear panty hose and a dress,
and high heel shoes
I feel really uncomfortable doing that
in the plant a problem for me.
normally I just wear blue jeans and a T shirt.
Very, very, comfortable.
I like that so much better than having to wear dress clothes.
buying suits and stuff, because just being at home
I work at home,
I just wear shorts and stuff like that.
I don't go out and spend lots of money on, different, suits and stuff,
when I,
before I got married, I was working
had more suits and stuff then
Right .
Worry about all that kind of stuff .
I have plenty of suits and dress clothes because I'm like you, when I first started working,
I have all these suits and blouses and skirts and mix and match, and that kind of stuff ,
now that I, work in the manufacturing plant, then it's just, so much more difficult for me actually get dressed up to come in to work like that.
occasionally I have to because, part of my job is teaching,
and training,
you have to look just a little bit nicer than your normal,
When you're training, right.
garb .
Than your normal garb .
I'm like you, too, I moved from Ohio down to here
moved from,
I had mostly polyesters and,
wools and winter clothes
and buying all these cotton clothes,
of course, you have to iron them all the time.
That's really,
that's been a problem for me.
I came from Wyoming
I had wool suits and wool skirts
I've got all these clothes that I never wear,
because you can't wear them here.
the seasons are just so much different.
You have so much summer.
when finally get a chance to go out with my husband it's like a real chore to find something nice to wear .
That's true, that's true.
Yeah .
I know, I was just now, putting away a lot of my winter clothes,
I was going through here
I was thinking, I haven't worn this in three years.
it's a wool skirt
there's just not that many opportunities to wear it.
I have five or six wool skirts,
I was thinking maybe, I need to think about getting rid of them,
I folded it up neatly and put it away , maybe next year .
You hate to get rid of it, because you know how much you spent on them.
it's real hard to get rid of some of that stuff, I know.
I know, I agree with you . *
I know last year, this past winter, it wasn't that cold.
the previous winter we had more, cold weather where I was able to actually wear,
your double and triple layerings of, clothes
like you would when you're up north.
that's really interesting.
just don't spend,
right now my clothes come from Target, .
they're all one hundred percent cotton
you take them out of the drier
they're wadded up in a ball.
I know.
have my ironing board sitting out all the time, *
Oh ,
I never put mine away , *
I'm so glad to meet somebody their iron board is their permanent fixture in their house.
It is, it is.
I have very little furniture,
my ironing board is part of my decor
That's true,
I've been looking at these, in Home Depot where you can go and they've got, ironing boards that will just flip right down off of the, the, the door.
you can actually have one where you can put it inside of a wall, to have it,
permanently attached,
that's what I'm thinking I'm going to have to do because mine's sitting right out in front of my bedroom
an eyesore, I think,
with all the,
it is, it is,
it's like, I just don't want to do it ,
I've been thinking about putting the ironing board in the closet,
running, a line in there for my iron so I could do it in there
I wouldn't have to have that eyesore .
, that's an idea.
I have a big closet.
if I have,
if I know I'm having somebody come over to the house there's a possibility they might be going back into my room,
I will put it away,
I iron our clothes as we go along,
I no longer do that weekly thing,
because I have so many,
I'm like you,
the night before or that day, I will iron whatever it is that we need
that's it.
it's too many,
hundred percent cotton.
You can't iron it all
with my kids, they're always getting into,
they can't decide what they want to wear so they,
change their minds, I know, my oldest is only four,
she's still changes her mind two or three times,
before she figures out what she's going to wear
I know, I know.
they never put anything back.
of course not.
would be too simple.
that's called smart, we don't do that kind of stuff, *
Absolutely not .
That's called too easy on mom. *
That's right.
Our lot in life is to make her life miserable
absolutely, absolutely.
it's been good talking to you, to that does the same thing I do because I tell people what I do
they just go, how do you do that?
It's like, it's easy, you just do it,
That's right .
That's right, *
know several of my girlfriends, though, all keep our ironing boards out and just, an ever present thing in our household
I don't think I'd know what to do if it wasn't there,
My husband wouldn't know where to hang his dirty clothes.
There you go.
You know.
Things that need to be mended,
things that have to get ironed,
He wouldn't know where to put things
That's true.
it was nice talking with you.
it was nice talking with you, too.
take care.
Take care.
Bye bye.
bye bye.
eating out.
What are you interested in in restaurants?
We eat out quite a bit, it's just my husband and I at home now. *
once a week, twice a week?
at least once a week.
retired now.
When we working out we ate out more than that .
I understand.
we both work
we have a daughter,
we normally manage to eat out once a week anyway.
huh. *
what type of restaurant do you like, Richard?
really, I'm kind of open on food.
I'm what you might call a culinary adventurer.
try anything once.
Been on a real barbecue kick lately.
have you?
We like Chinese.
We eat,
a lot of Chinese food.
we usually have Chinese once a month.
What do you look for in a restaurant?
I hate franchised restaurants.
You what?
I despise
franchised restaurants.
I always prefer to go to something that seems more family run.
some place where you seem to have the attitude like you're going into their home for dinner almost.
I know what you mean.
I like some ambiance,
I like good food.
I don't like fast food hamburgers and all of that.
I don't,
I don't like something fake or put on either.
if I could have a good small restaurant or a good large restaurant I'd go to the good small restaurant.
I don't know why that is.
I think it's probably due to pricing, often.
I don't care to go to a place just for the price of it .
it's like continental French restaurant or something really
with high prices
seven courses isn't what I usually look for .
It is what you look for?
It isn't, that isn't what I look for. *
I try to get my money's worth.
Right .
not just that, get my money's worth.
and not just in quantity, but quality, flavor and texture and care.
presentation's not always all of it either.
been eating some in a restaurant just changed hands recently,
we're trying to give them a little patronage.
Sunday we went there,
I had a pretty good meal of grilled pork chops and a baked apple and potatoes.
I said if they would just add a little bit of cranberry sauce, something like that .
something a little extra
that's what I mean by,
and just for color if nothing else.
It would mean a lot to the looks of the plate.
What I miss up here is, I'm originally a Texan, and I miss home cooked Mexican.
Tex Mex, Tex Mex.
home cooked Tex Mex.
Mexican restaurants where it's not owned by an Anglo or a corporation.
I know.
we have a daughter in Texas and one in New Mexico,
we've really gotten to like,
we like the real Mexican food
better than Tex Mex.
there's real Mexican food
there's real Tex Mex Mexican, by third or fourth generation Americans
of Hispanic heritage.
It's all pretty good, isn't it?
there's big differences, of course,
of course, when you talk about Mexican cuisine that's kind of like talking about American food or Chinese food, because its regional, too.
that's true.
I'm originally from Maine,
we like seafood, too.
that's something we don't get here,
we're in the mountains in Virginia.
most of the seafood's frozen.
that's the way it is here in Colorado, also.
No fresh, or almost no fresh seafood
in Texas we got it from the Gulf.
that's true.
Lots of shrimp.
here a couple years ago my wife and I went to Seattle on vacation.
I think everything except breakfast was seafood for almost a week.
I know it .
it was,
I was like a man starving at every meal.
I know the feeling.
We do the same thing.
My son in law is a Texan,
when he goes to Maine, he eats lobster, I guess, at least twice a day, all the time he's up there .
It's a lot cheaper there, isn't it?
It's like
It's like shrimp on the Gulf.
two ninety eight a pound for a pound lobster.
Two ninety eight a pound.
That's as cheap as steaks some places
in a grocery store.
A lot of the restaurants you can get two one pound lobsters for like ten ninety nine.
my gosh.
I've got to go to Maine then .
You may have sold a trip for some time.
it's a good place to go.
it sounds wonderful.
Lots of little restaurants, too, with home cooked food, that's up there.
That sound good.
down in the Gulf I've eaten a bunch of those little seafood shacks, we've called them.
it's just so much different than to eat something that's been frozen.
We went to Gal ,
shrimp straight out of the bay.
We were in Galveston last year the first of this year, actually.
And, ate in a restaurant,
they claimed to have the best shrimp on the Gulf coast.
Was it true?
It wasn't.
On the way across Louisiana, we pulled off, we saw a billboard and just pulled off taking a chance on a place.
they had,
it was a small restaurant, just kind of out of the way,
they were set up with two buffets, one for their regular Sunday chicken and roast beef and vegetables and everything.
And then one complete seafood buffet.
That was the best shrimp I have ever had in my life.
They had shrimp fixed probably six different ways.
the cajuns.
It was wonderful.
do things to shrimp no one else can.
have you eaten crawfish yet?
I tried it,
I didn't care for it.
Not there, but at my brothers I tried it.
as with anything, it's preparation.
That's probably true.
I wasn't hungry, it wasn't a meal. *
We just,
he went down and bought some at a
local place that steams them, just so we'd try them.
there's all kinds,
Probably needed some cold beer with it
you do eat out a lot.
Quite a bit.
One of our other real problems with going out to eat, Sunday morning brunches.
Sunday brunch, you can eat brunches.
We used to do that, once in a while,
we don't anymore.
we still find it fun.
It's fun,
it's just so much food .
Hate to come away feeling uncomfortable .
I work in machine shop and do a lot of physical labor.
Do you,
that makes a difference.
Where do you go to brunches?
at hotels, or restaurants there?
favorites is a chain. Shoney's.
We eat at Shoney's.
in spite of the fact I've spoken so badly about restaurants, we, do like Shoney's pretty well,
then there's a place up the pass, up in the mountains that we pretty reliably like to up to, I think it's about eight thousand foot elevation.
drive through Woodland Park and go for a short drive in the mountains and have breakfast.
that sounds nice.
it's the way to spend a nice Sunday morning.
I imagine it is.
I think it's as much trip to the mountains as it is the breakfast brunch. D
You know, it's not that far.
It's thirty miles.
Whe ,
out of, which direction?
Colorado Springs.
Out of, which direction from there?
west out of Colorado Springs.
What are your favorite programs?
it's kind of hard to put my finger favorite T V program,
one that I've been watching for a number of years is DALLAS.
how funny.
it's going to be going off the air, let's see,
It's going to be its last show.
I've, I've kind of enjoyed watching over the years.
I've been disappointed in it and also pleased in it.
I was, greatly disappointed, when I did move down to Plano to, find out that great South Fork Ranch was really only a one bedroom house.
I've seen the sign that goes to there.
I think I've seen it in the distance.
I have not even seen it.
I have not seen the program.
That's a shame.
I know when we went to London, it was really funny.
people recognized Dallas, Texas, by Texas, cowboys
and by that program.
the two things they associate with Dallas, Texas.
they asked me,
they ask me, why are there two bridges?
I didn't know what they were talking about.
It took me a long time, they're talking about the viaducts.
Is that,
that is right, isn't it?
they ask me, why are there two bridges going into Dallas?
Darned if I know .
I was blank looking,
I felt really dumb.
it's, it's,
when you look at the, route seventy five, coming down there. it's actually a bridge,
it's a bridge over top of roadway.
There's no water there.
there's water in the Trinity.
I thought it was going to Oak Cliff over the Trinity.
I think when they open the show up they give you two different views of Dallas.
do they?
One from the east and one from the west.
that's why.
I see.
it kind of confuses people.
I enjoy, a lot of different comedies.
I think it's mainly for an escape, my job is not the most thrilling in the world
I enjoy laughing and, some of the shows that, are on the air, some are just purely, brain drainers.
there's other ones that, deal with, in a funny manner, socially relevant things.
one show that comes to mind is DESIGNING WOMEN.
I think that is just a hoot.
That's one of those few that I do watch when the television is on.
My husband likes to watch T V.
It's on.
I usually read and watch T V.
usually I can handle both at the same time, *
Because I am pretty sure where the T V plot's going. *
that's one of the few that I just actually watch.
it's funny.
I really enjoy that one.
has been very entertaining
also, issues they deal with, really tends to your eyes as well as your mind to some of the problems.
really enjoyed that one since it came on.
I don't like the politics surrounding the program though,
other than that, there seems to be a little in fighting going on between the producers and one of the actresses.
I've kind of gotten hooked on P B S stuff, public, T V.
I like things like NOVA and, some of special programs they come up with on nature and stuff.
I just enjoy watching that stuff.
Now, we watch a lot of those.
the ones that sometimes will hook me, to put down my book, will be the one, there was one, recently about the Gettysburg Address.
they wrapped a fictional story around it.
I thought that was well done.
it, it caught my attention.
I wound up watching the whole thing.
I guess the awards ceremonies, and there seems to be dozens of them per year.
Maybe I've spent two minutes watching to see what they on and if they make a fool of themselves or not .
they could take that whole collection
it would disappear
I'd never miss it for a minute. *
Especially the beauty pageants. *
particularly take issue with those.
really dislike those.
I'm one of those rare guys, who, rarely ever sit down and watch a whole sporting event, if ever watch one.
there's just not that much interested in.
for a while, I watched some football,
I've just got too many more important things in my life now than to sit around watch a baseball game.
my husband used to just be riveted to the Dallas Cowboys.
now, we're out running around,
playing, he'll turn it on while we're in the car to see what the score is,
he'll listen.
even I've said, you're fascinated with this, you sit and listen to the Cowboys.
Let me run in here,
I'll do some things
I'll come back
you don't have to miss, he'll say, na, na, na.
he doesn't, he doesn't watch it.
He list , like I say,
if it's convenient he'll listen to it.
he just doesn't watch them on T V like he used to.
I think it was great when they were, world champs and they were doing real well.
came from the Washington area.
I was a big Washington Redskins fan.
those people.
when I came down to Dallas, I found myself rooting for the home team.
in fact I have baseball hat that was signed by Tony Dorsett and Hershel Walker
how neat.
the only year they played together on the Dallas Cowboys.
I actually got to go see them win in the Super Bowl when they went down to New Orleans.
I make the trip and did the whole New Orleans before the game and everything
Huh. *
a lot of fun.
Yeah. *
I don't know, I haven't been as,
I'll tell you what I love to watch. And this is not, this is rarely on television.
what is a lot of fun to go attend, is this arena football.
I like it so much better than straight football.
I haven't seen that.
it has a lot of different rules.
The field is half the size
there's no,
they can't call time and things like that.
It moves a lot faster.
I'll have to try to catch that sometime.
again I think it may be on cable more than anything else.
that's probably true.
don't have cable.
we don't either.
couldn't rationalize paying,
it's like if I pay for a movie channel, then I have watch what movies they want me to watch when they want me to watch them.
didn't use cable for anything else other than the basic, I can get that for free.
I really don't need C N N, I see enough bad news all the time.
I don't need to see more of it.
kind of, rationalized that probably a lot more economical for us to just go rent the movies we want to see.
of course when we were living in Texas, it was real convenient with Tom Thumb.
having movies, back then it was ninety nine cents.
They're everywhere, they're
on every corner.
Everything you've ever wanted to see.
You can see them a lot sooner than you can see them on any of the stations like H B O or Cinemax.
I like to rent tapes because you can put the thing on hold if you get a telephone call or something like that.
it becomes snack time for various reasons.
You can put,
the only thing, this DANCE WITH WOLVES, I want to see it in a theater.
I do too.
I understand that, you'll lose fifty percent of it if you don't.
been trying to get my wife to go with me to go see it.
doesn't like going to movie theaters because usually they're dirty,
she just doesn't like them.
she doesn't think that she could sit still for three hours and watch the movie.
I've told her, everybody I know that has seen it has said that the three hours go really quick.
That's what I hear too.
hoping I can get her talked into it soon.
my husband smokes.
He's one of the dinosaurs that still smokes.
you can't smoke in movie theaters.
that has really slowed down the forward progress of going to movies.
I haven't really cared up until this point.
we are this weekend going to go see DANCE WITH WOLVES.
that's it.
We will do it.
That's great.
far as, regular T V shows, I've got shows that I would be afraid to admit to you that I've actually sat down and watched .
others that, I wish I had time to see.
It's like I enjoy watching CHEERS.
It's very funny.
Some of the things in it are mindless,
just don't have time to watch it.
I think about the only night that I really sit in front of the T V set all night long probably is on Monday night.
I work so hard over the weekend, doing other things with the kids and stuff and going to work on Monday.
Monday night I'm just worn out.
I kind of use it as the time to catch up on correspondence look over things.
I can sit in front of the T V set and look at, go through my mail watch T V at the same time.
I tend,
my job tends to be very demanding.
And to sit down and to mindlessly either read or just mindlessly stare in absolute comfort isn't as bad as it used to,
I'm actually at work.
o , .
I ,
I'm in facilities and happen to have, weekend duty here.
What building do you work in?
I'm in the South Building.
pull mostly evenings.
We are having,
there's three of us, facilities' managers are covering the off shifts. Just to have somebody here, from management to, see if they need anything.
how many calls have you made?
I've only made a few.
I'm, getting close to twenty.
This is the,
hopefully you have a lot to talk about in this one,
I don't really have a lot in this one.
Usually I can talk for hours on most of the subjects (( they pick )) .
Go ahead, you first .
our topic for today is invasion of privacy.
I got a good one.
When the phone rings and you've got a recording, and this always happens around five or six o'clock,
Okay, yeah.
at night. It rings and you get this recording
it won't go away
of the type of solicitation where they call all the time,
There are evenings especially Friday nights, Thursday and Friday nights.
we must get in the neighborhood of anywhere from three to six calls about that time of night.
More people call, that's where you want to jerk the phone out of the wall, your sitting down to eat and the phone rings
it's like, I don't want anything, thank you very much .
the worst one, I guess, is like you, when it's a recording. I don't mind so much someone calls
a salesperson, at least you can chat or whatever and say, okay, now, we want to go ,
they actually start off with computer,
and expect you to talk to a computer, that's where I draw the lin , I just hang up immediately,
shut my other radio off here .
real irritating to me.
I guess they get their name ,
amazed the (( )) question about that the,
my concern would be everyone seems to have an answering machine
I have one too,
they say that they can tie up your answering machine and just have a big long, if they catch your answering machine,
They can leave their whole spiel on it.
can erase all your others, because if you have,
I think that's the way it is, mine, I guess, if it's full, it will not take it, I'm not sure.
they can certainly, block your answering machine so someone else calls you, and your answering machine is full,
it won't erase.
your right. *
That was a good one.
a high irritant for me.
Drives me crazy.
it doesn't matter if you have an unlisted number or not because a lot of times (( these )) computer things will just make up numbers at random and just call them.
it doesn't make much difference as to whether or not, you have a unlisted number or not.
they pass around, cards that have everybody's name on it.
Like if you order something through a mail order catalog,
then you'll start getting a bunch of stuff in. because they sell their customer list,
they sell their catalog list of people,
to different companies and everything.
I've got one, it's not really an invasion of privacy *
it's, annoyance for me in the office with, speaker phones.
the ,
they're great for an office
this one guy next to me, who's not here just so I could talk about him,
he uses his speaker phone all the time,
it carries over
not only would you hear,
it seems to me that you you kind of yell into it.
he yells into it,
you hear the other person too,
it's kind of a double annoyance.
He actually, ruins my privacy you might say because the, the T I offices are so open anyway.
that I'm amazed that, the fact that I'm about ready to say something, if he's (( even thought of )) that that's a real uncourteous thing, invasion of everyone else's time concentration to just be loud.
I don't know whether that's an invasion of privacy just being loud annoying,
perhaps not quite an invasion of privacy
I think it is,
yo ,
we both picked phone items there.
Go ahead, do you have any more? *
Let's see, I'm trying to think.
have you heard I'm trying to think of what company it was, there was a company that was going to, be giving out information about your financial status.
a good one too. Yeah, *
I heard something about, not that exactly,
go ahead.
I work in the computer science center
we hear a lot about things capable of doing.
this was a software program that a company was developing that was going to have X amount of million peoples financial history and information on it.
they were going to sell it to companies who would up in turn solicit you for business et cetera, et cetera.
they finally, stopped production of it because of all the hullabaloo it caused,
because it was such a big deal.
I wouldn't have been too thrilled about it either.
there was a lot of stuff going on about it.
I, heard something similar to that.
I listen to,
I'm a, talk show person.
there was,
do my chores up at the rad ,
I'm a radio person I guess is what I mean.
I listened to, was it five seventy, which has continuous talk on the weekends,
and Neil Sperry and everybody, the lawyers and veterinarians and all that.
I don't know if it was a lawyer or whatever it was talking about when you make out application, all that information on there is really not necessarily,
even your Social Security number,
you should just put down the basics and put N A, where you don't want to answer.
Whether it's your personal salary or whatever.
if your just making out a credit card application you don't need to put down
I was curious as to what specific things did have to put down.
he says Social Security, you don't need to put that down there. Which I thought was surprising.
maybe there's something along that same line where, in all these financial, applications that you make out, you don't have to put all that stuff down there.
It would be nice to know
they could say, I can't give you a card,
you could say, fine,
some things will be private,
he said just put N A
he said usually you'll get approved anyway because they just want your money , they want your card.
if you don't feel like putting it down, just put N A,
that's real interesting.
I know that a lot of times they ask for information that they don't really need,
on several things and, your credit ap they ever need you to do is give them permission pull a credit thing yourself
there it is.
That's all they really care about.
They just want that credit history to see if you're a (( )) person.
If you're going to go ahead and pay your bills on time and things like that.
I haven't,
I don't have any friends down at Austin plant,
I heard that they were really upset about the drug thing,
we seem to up here have just breezed through that
apparently some other companies are having trouble
I don't have any trouble with it.
it's kind of unusual here we are in Dallas, the biggest location it just breezed through
no one was, I guess, really too concerned about it, yet in Austin, were, whether it was a class action or how far it got, I don't really know because T I only had a few things on T I NEWS I think about it,
that they were objecting to
some people object to that which I don't mind, (( no )) problem at all,
I know that there's several people I've talked to that really have a problem with it
I'm former military
you get kind of used to,
to going through stuff like that.
you don't pay any attention to it.
once you sign over your soul to Uncle Sam,
(( )) , you just kind of,
I know.
kind of blow it off
I know,
I served my time too,
the people been down that route or have had to deal with anything like that have learned, it's just one of those things.
You just do it and be done with it and don't worry about it.
I do know that there are several (( sites )) .
I didn't,
I wasn't aware that Austin was one of them,
I think Johnson City was one.
did they object too?
several of the cities that have been having real trouble with the issue.
but also on things that I'd heard too from a stockholders meeting was that the same places where they had a real bad problem with people fighting it were also places they had a big bad problem with the drug usage too.
all for it.
it doesn't bother me that whether they do it in high schools or, carry it to wherever you want to carry it really,
of course, that would really be a big thing in a public school
I'm saying certainly at work I have no problem with it.
I think it is, found that it's been very low really.
I guess maybe at the locations though, I don't know if they have it done but, done it by location.
I don't really know if, they need to publish that really.
I don't think it's a necessary thing to publish it they just need to deal with it and, (( )) , on an individual basis.
if they're going to do it, just deal with it and,
be done with it.
I think that was actually a good thing that happened, I never considered it, I guess, it's an invasion of your privacy
it's something that is for the good of so many people, to,
have everyone, take the test right away
hopefully, maybe some people will convince other people that are on drugs that, I might as well get off, if I want to stay so,
if that was an invasion of privacy maybe it was good.
I think it's a safety factor too because, when people are inebriated, whether it's alcohol or drugs or whatever, they are very unsafe for their co workers,
it's like, my father was a fireman
I can just imagine if, , some guy being on drugs they go there
you've got somebody that's supposed to take care of you
out because of the drug issue,
you can forgive somebody because all of a sudden they maybe get hurt or whatever you can understand *
the (( )) use of drugs or anything like that,
will, be a problem.
Go ahead, you got me more, I, *
a tough one, I really haven't thought about any of this.
They had gardening yesterday and all the repairs,
I could,
what did you buy?
A Ford Explorer.
I'm sorry, what?
A Ford Explorer.
one of the new ones.
probably buy another, this is the first American vehicle I've owned.
I would probably purchase another one, I would be more selective in the dealership that I purchased it from
as far as, the quality seems to be there, it's quiet, handles well,
I believe I'd get that or a Porsche, one of the two.
not ,
if I had the money, I think I would love to own a, a B M W.
why would that be?
I don't know, I,
from what, or
either that or Mercedes, just because they're put together so well.
It seems like they last forever.
What's wrong with the Volvo.
I don't know, not as nice looking.
m ,
to me, I don't know, I'm sure there are some that are,
everyone I've seen is kind of plain,
city are you calling from?
Where are you?
Up in Dallas.
B M W or Mercedes, yeah,
If I the money, that's just,
I know I never would own one,
I don't know. I like,
my actual favorite cars were, like the Ford Thunderbirds
of nineteen eighty five.
I really like that body style,
I don't own one of those either .
What do you presently drive?
Mercury Topaz.
in cars, okay .
there nothing wrong with those,
they're all right, it's, it's a good car, *
nice veh ,
I've never had any problem with it. *
they're nice vehicles, nothing wrong with those.
just everybody has their own taste,
the Mercedes are expensive.
My wife has a Volvo
nice, it's okay
I roped on Volvos then .
I roped on Volvos then.
kind of wish we would have maybe gone for the G L rather than the D L
because it is the safest car on the road, *
is it?
yeah. *
I don't much about them I guess.
there just safe to just,
that's the reason why we mainly got it.
We got white
it's the safest four door, if you have a family, which we do.
(( )) one out
they're kind of low to the ground after driving the Explorer.
I presently,
I used to have a two, eighty Z,
I'm a tall guy
they're hard to get around in traffic to see.
you can't see a car ahead of you,
they're fast as lightning and all that crap.
the Explorer, you're sitting up on top of everything
you can really see real well.
I just,
it's so comfortable
what are your feelings about American versus European cars?
I like anything besides Japanese.
Of course everything has Japanese parts in them anymore.
I don't like Japanese cars,
Why not.
European, I don't any,
those are the kind I usually end up liking the most.
American cars, a lot of people say don't last long
I've never had any problem with, my Mercury,
my cous ,
my husband has a, Cougar
he's never had any problem with it either,
I don't know.
That's the way it goes, I guess.
what are your,
I guess this is your first time to buy American,
I was real hesitant
it was ,
I don't know, I think European cars are great, course you've got to have metric wrenches and stuff
they're eas ,
of them are easy to work on.
A Volvo, being a four cylinder is very easy to work on.
excellent warranty, just, unbelievable warranty.
of course, Ford isn't too bad.
I think Chrysler would probably make a good vehicle,
all of it has to do, in my opinion with the service.
and the attitude of the service, of the dealership.
I wouldn't send my dog to buy a car from Middlekauff Ford.
Middlekauff Ford in Plano.
Their just,
their attitude is just slimy.
I've written letter to Middlekauff
I've told them that, matter of fact I got another letter last night from the Quality Ford Division, their still concerned about my attitude *
will never change about that place.
anyway that's my own personal comment I guess,
this girl that works for me just bought a car down there
sh ,
had a problem with they, took their Camaro in to get it traded and hadn't signed any papers
they had all ready, taken it in to paint it and everything
everything was stolen out of it
the people, wouldn't reimburse them for anything.
Middlekauff wouldn't?
She needs to find herself a lawyer.
come out like a champ on that one.
I've heard some stuff about them.
you been using,
That was,
I was asking you some questions about the telephone have you been doing,
don't want to hear that.
just about a week.
Is that all?
A week.
Good Lord,
I think I started in January or February.
I'm twenty some phone calls.
That's why wasn't sure if this was the second time around or what.
I've enjoyed speaking with you.
you too.
keep smiling.
Bye, bye.
child care, your views.
we only have one child right now and another one on the way
right now all with her during the day.
if I was looking for outside care I probably would stay away from professional child care centers and try to find, if I was close to home, relatives or people with same values and possibly religious faith or something similar so that she would be raised in an environment that would be similar to what we would have in our own homes parents.
what religious faith?
Latter Day Saints.
that's what I would try to do.
With a teaching background I've, had a little bit of experience with the child day care type situations
I've seen some good ones
I've seen some really bad ones.
they do seem to be at the outside edge of both extremes don't they?
and everything in between, in most states there's nothing to regulate them, *
whenever they are they seem to regulate the good toward the bad instead of bad toward the good.
By trying to get them to conform to concern standards they, kind of, eliminate a lot of the,
Better situations.
The, the,
what am I trying to think of that, not the imagination but the creativity the situation
very well phrased.
have you ever used outside child care?
I haven't.
We've had people come in and baby sit for an hour or two
I've never had,
Real day care.
not even a year yet,
we haven't been in, a lot of need yet.
our step daughter's ten now
most of the day care has been provide for by Grandma.
I like that situation, that's usually real good . *
quite honestly what I believe to be the best day care situation was while we lived up, the Pass of Woodland Park
there was, ex school teacher that, did a small amount of before school and after school, kindergartners, or half dayers
in her home
they would read and play,
Have structured,
seem to be,
activities and not just, stick them in a corner and say you're on your own.
despite our beliefs, she was, one of the more, Charismatic Christian faiths
it worked out wonderfully.
I know I guess if you have the opportunity to pick and choose and you've got the time and that, I don't know if the resources are the proper term, just of who's a available, then you could probably find some really good care.
I don't know that it would be state approved.
That's true.
You can get somebody maybe willing to baby sit
that's sometimes done on a different scale.
I have even considered, baby sitting myself, I have a teaching degree, and, thought I could structure and then for one reason or other decided not to,
I think if you take more than three children in,
that was how it was this Virginia, we've recently moved here to Texas, but in Virginia I think if you take more than three children in on more than a several hours a day bases you have to be licensed.
now I don't know what the current Texas laws are
do know that the license doesn't seem to, guarantee quality.
a lot of times you might just need to go now and file for it just like a business.
You may not have to prove any type of qualification for it I don't,
now here I believe that child care meets, by in large, certain standards for, balanced food, if they provide food, cleanliness, and levels of supervision
levels being defined as number of working adults for number of children
That's, kind of a minimum there that you're getting.
Your covering basic care there and not all the extras that most people would like to see done with there children, like the educational activities, the supervised play and so forth.
Yeah, *
my wife is, agnostic
I'm, a backsliding Presbyterian
I like that term .
I really believe that this Charismatic care, or the Charismatic belief when emphasized on care, or semi Charismatic I might say
was quite good.
it was a good influence for your daughter,
that's good.
the care is what I guess you should emphasize in the term child care instead of the child.
a little bit of love attention is what most of them need.
even if it's not a real educated program you can have good educational program
And not have any care.
that's not certainly what you want for your child or what you would give your child yourself
I'm not sure that really child care per se should instill any education per se.
Do you know had a I'm saying?
even educated play, supervised play, can teach without,
I'm not saying talking about sitting down and teaching them math or something like that but just kind of promoting social skills
like child that,
she want be an only child for long,
she was an only child,
maybe your daughter,
Proper interface.
not having,
It's correctness social skills, if you will.
those basic things be a little bit of, I don't know if manners is a good term or not but,
dealing with other through proper mannerisms and politeness and so forth, that sort of thing, you'd want your child to learn that, from the experience of someone else, certainly you wouldn't want your child's day care person to yell at them and scream at them and say do this, do that, you'd want them it promote politeness and niceness, the things that you would want any child to learn
the reason,
that's done through example, not an actual sit down learn situation
it's a very broad issue.
it is .
it's a shame
most people doing, child care earn almost no money.
They operate at,
the owner of the chi , of a, a large child care facility now,
we're not talking somebody that does six kids,
in their home or three or whatever.
Somebody that doesn't really put a lot of overhead whatever into it.
You mean somebody that has an actual establishment.
Their employees earn almost nothing.
I know did that for summer
vouch for that .
that's really, really a shame too because,
do you and your husband both work.
just he does here during the day with her.
that's wonderful you can make it that way.
decided to,
we live on a lesser budget so that we have
more important to us, there may come a time when I will be working again,
right now that's what we've chosen
we wanted to have several,
we got her
we've got another on the way,
and maybe another,
like I said,
one soon after that,
that's grand you can pull it off
more and more where you've got to have,
I'm talking to you from Dallas.
What part of the country are you in?
this is going to be tough, I'm in Plano .
we can, complain together (( or swear )) we can complain together about the humidity .
I guess the weather hasn't been too different between us.
I don't think so,
I wouldn't think,
W ,
what part of Dallas are you from?
Far north Dallas .
north Dallas.
about a half a mile from Plano .
we're in the,
then you've been getting quite a bit of rain also.
it's been very, very rainy, I know.
How about that.
How does it compare to the years past?
I don't know, I haven't lived here, we lived out of state in Wisconsin
we just c ,
we lived here ten years ago,
when we first lived here, we were in Garland, East Richardson,
and, doesn't seem like it was quite as humid.
I don't know, then we lived in, Madison, Wisconsin for five years, for my husband's
it just,
it's a lot cleaner up there,
it's a lot colder too.
what brought you guys down to Texas then?
his job, he came back to start work again for a different company,
How about that.
Here, here's a g ,
here we are again.
That's great.
It just seems a little more humid than it,
I don't ever remember, of course, you only remember the good stuff,
I just don't remember the humidity.
This much rain, and this much humidity.
I'm sure, the winters are more mild here.
they are.
though, it was a lot rainier here in the winter, we came back last August.
It's just a lot rainier than I remember it, all through the seasons,
It seems that progressive,
I've, been down here five years, just over five years now, that, every spring and summer seems to get more and more rainy.
I think it's because it's just getting more crowded and more polluted.
I really do think that's part of it.
Wisconsin and Minnesota, when they get winters the winters are bad, but not what you hear about.
It's just like down here, when people here think it's a hundred and six, people up north think it's a hundred and sixty down here.
A hundred and sixty.
Hundre ,
I'm making that up.
when it's only ninety five.
it's just like up there, when you hear it's forty below, it's probably really only five below.
it's so dry, that like going to Ar ,
probably what Arizona used to be like,
it's just dry and cool,
what you think it is.
there have been times, though, when it gets so frigid that you ,
you can't stand it.
Where did you move here from?
you could talk about
that's a strange state for,
I'm very familiar,
my grandparents and all my relatives are from Wisconsin.
there you go, okay.
I'm, quite familiar with how it is up there,
if you,
kind of interesting, the people down here typically don't think it gets above, fifty degrees .
This is very true.
it's always snow,
the summers up there, we thought, were the most beautiful time of the year.
in terms of Colorado, I know my husband likes to camp and backpack and all the stuff I don't like,
used to go on,
I worked for a mortgage company in Wisconsin
I did a lot of business in, Denver,
probably one of the stranger things, when you see the air inversions,
and then you go into the mountains
it's snowy
it just was a very mixed bag in terms of Colorado.
My parents just live, thirty miles south of Denver
it can be sunny no problem in Denver
they'll be having snow .
Isn't that strange?
it's pretty amazing, it can be that drastic in just a short distance .
things like torn ,
are there tornadoes in Colorado, yes or n , I don't,
it's getting to be more and more of a possibility.
It used to be no problem, just because it was such rugged terrain and with trees everywhere,
The mountains,
as they start to clear more things out.
I'm originally from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
I can tell you that, they've even had,
in eastern Ohio and western Pennsylvania, they've even had, I'm going to say, mini tornadoes for lack of a better word.
that's just a part of the country that it's rolling hillside.
That was unheard of, twenty years ago.
I don't know what's happening, if it's, we are, the greenhouse, I don't really know.
me neither.
It's just,
It's definitely not as,
I know I associate the pollution with weather in general,
I guess one thing we do miss, is that's a smaller town,
it just seemed a little bit more pleasant in terms of the atmosphere,
it's been good talking to you.
You too.
Good bye .
Good bye.
Bye bye.
what kind of things do you like to do in your spare time?
I have two children,
I do not have a whole lot of spare time right now.
One of the things that I have made time for is, playing softball.
I really enjoy,
I enjoy softball,
I enjoy all kind of sports.
I enjoy watching and participating.
I really like water sports like swimming and skiing,
I do not get to do that too often.
really enjoy sewing,
I do not get much of a chance to just really sit down and do much sewing.
How about you?
I, like sports type things too.
We like to get out and walk,
we like the water sports too.
like you, unless you have a pool in your backyard, it is kind of hard to get to do that
I, know it.
It is.
very often.
Do you work full time?
part time.
Part time.
are going to have a baby in July.
part of my big hobby has been trying to put together a nursery and all that kind of stuff, lately.
that definitely takes over your time.
it does.
I have been,
Is this going to be your first?
I have been doing some cross stitch for something I wanted to put in the nursery.
I have not
done that in years,
I have kind of enjoyed that.
It is just hard to find the time to sit there and do it.
that is,
it sure is fun to do that kind of thing because then you have got something to show for it.
That is neat.
I guess I kind of consider shopping a hobby .
I do too.
I just go out enjoy it and not
really spend money sometimes,
just look.
since I have had kids, it is kind of funny. never really was much of a garage sale shopper until I had kids. *
you will probably find after your children get bigger, like when they want things like tricycles, toys, things that cost quite a lot in the store, you can find that kind of stuff at garage sales for just a few dollars.
bought some baby clothes, last weekend at a garage sale.
you can just get all kinds of things and kids, especially clothes and toys, they just do not use them and wear them, for that many years or anything. *
I am,
I have become a garage sale shopper.
it is fun.
On the weekends I drive around, look to see, who is selling what.
I found my little daughter some tap shoes for her tap class.
Oh .
And just, all kinds of things like that, that you would probably pay thirty dollars for,
I got them for two dollars .
it is kind of a hobby, that is time consuming too, really, to find the things that you want sometimes you have to stop *
at a lot of places.
it is.
does take more time.
I do not work,
that is something I have decided I am going to make sure my kids happy growing up years
I think that is important too.
I am not
going to work
after the baby comes.
that is good.
I am glad,
guess, hopefully I will have more time for hobbies.
I do not know .
at first, when you first have a baby, seems to take every moment of your time. Partly because you are not used to, juggling your time around like that.
eventually be doing lots of stuff.
I think, my husband is real into sports too.
He plays on a T I softball team and the church softball team.
by the time he plays two games a week and I play a game a week, we go to lots of softball .
the kids enjoy going because there's usually a lot of other kids for them to play with
and that is getting outside and, doing things they like to do too.
that is good.
A whole fam ,
your whole family can enjoy those hobbies.
one other thing we are doing this year is, we bought Wet and Wild passes.
We have never done that before,
the kids are always wanting to play in the water.
like you said, unless you have a pool in your backyard or access to a good place to play, it is kind of hard.
they have real good kiddie areas, at both of the Wet and Wild's around here.
we are planning on going two or three times a week .
That will make the summer go by in a hurry.
I think it will.
Keep the kids busy.
my oldest daughter is in school,
she gets bored real fast when she is home with nothing to do.
I think that will be a lot of fun.
we are looking forward to that.
do you consider yard work a hobby at all
is that just a chore? .
when I got married, I thought it was going to be fun .
my husband and I both, I think, consider it a chore.
our yard has had so many problems.
It has completely died out two times.
we have had to start all over trying to plant grass.
it has become a chore .
Do you and your husband like to work in the yard?
we like it once in a while but not as often as we have to do it .
I like to put flowers out and,
a few little things like that.
as far as
mowing every week, and finding time
to get all that stuff done,
it gets to be a chore.
That is true.
Seems like sometimes hobbies do that.
They kind of take over and turn into work instead of
that is how sewing.
I love to sew,
I wish I had more time to do it.
sometimes I will get started on a project and then finishing it is more of a chore than ,
If it does not go quite, quite right.
Another thing I enjoy doing is cooking.
like especially,
it is real strange,
I like to cook for other people.
I have a friend that is, pregnant
she can't get up and walk around right now.
I enjoy, cooking things to take over to her house
that is nice.
is fun for me to do that.
something I enjoy doing.
It is funny though, it is like I do not really want to cook for us .
It is kind of like when you are a kid someone else's house was fun to clean,
you did not want to do your own .
How funny.
I think I will enjoy cooking more when I am not working, when I
do not get home until five thirty or six, and I have to cook and clean up,
I think I will like it better.
When you are home
it makes a difference.
It sure does.
do you guys go camping or anything like that?
we have done a little bit of camping.
We like that.
there again, it is just so hard to find time to get away
for a whole weekend.
that is something that we are planning to do not this weekend, but the next.
My parents go camping a lot,
they invited the kids and my husband and me to go with them
That sounds fun.
We are really looking forward to it.
The girls love it.
They have been a couple of times, and, just getting to be outside, all the time and sleep in a tent. that is really fun to them.
We are looking forward to that.
that sounds nice.
think that would be a good family thing
to start doing
think so.
more often.
husband loves to fish.
I am not much into fishing,
my daughter thinks she wants to learn how to fish
I think it will be real good for them .
They can go fishing.
we have camped with some friends who have young children
if you can find some place where those little sunfish are right around the shore where they can just pull in a line.
they have so much fun doing that.
they think they are really great fishermen
because they are catching so many .
I know.
she is really looking forward.
I am hoping,
that is another thing though, when sometimes your, hobbies can interfere with each other.
my husband is afraid he is going to have a softball tournament that weekend.
I am saying, no, no .
Skip this tournament .
If you are doing a lot of things, sometimes you have conflicts,
you have to decide what you enjoy the most.
Do you do any other crafts or anything besides your sewing?
not really right now.
I keep thinking when the kids get bigger and I have a little more time, I would love to cross stitch.
I think cross stitching is so pretty,
I have never done any.
It is not too hard.
It is,
I do not think it is as hard as knitting or
crochet or something like that.
crocheted when I was younger.
It is funny, when I was in high school, I made a blanket.
I can't even remember how I did it now .
It has been so long since I did it that
I started to knit a sweater.
I got off on my rows somehow,
what should have been the back all of a sudden was on the front.
I tore it out and threw it down.
I never have,
picked it back up again,
now I can't remember anything about it .
I did the same thing.
when I was pregnant with my first daughter, I was really bored,
I bought one of those latch hook rug kits.
It was a real pretty rug.
I thought, I could use this as a gift or something,
it was so,
it was beautiful,
I did not realize how long it took.
I got about of it done,
I just,
I had the baby .
it was just like
Forget it.
I forgot all about it.
every once in a while I will be digging through the closet,
I will find that thing.
I will think, maybe I ought to get the rest of that out, and finish it.
for a while there latch hook rugs were a real big, hobby.
I remember that.
It seemed like people did them a lot.
people do not do that much any more.
it was something easy I could do .
They are pretty easy.
it has been real good talking to you.
You too.
I hope you enjoy your camping trip.
thank you.
thanks for calling.
huh. *
Bye bye.
I always think I'm paying too much taxes.
How about you?
definitely .
(( Seems )) like,
Although at least Texas doesn't have a state income tax yet.
they keep threatening us that maybe there will be a day that they're going to, enact this I think, the, other means of providing (( income )) for the state have been dwindling
they keep trying to say we may need a, state income tax .
I think that, we probably will a state income tax because, Texans don't approve of such things as lotteries, come here from New York
New York had a state lottery,
it really raised a lot of money state.
although we,
in New York we had to pay a state and a city, tax.
it was really a great relief when I got to Texas that I didn't have to pay that city income tax, though.
makes quite a bit of difference in income level.
other states quite a bi , a chunk out for, city and state taxes
you're, looking at your yearly salary, it makes quite a difference.
It sure does make a difference.
A little more take home here .
Do you live in Dallas?
Richardson area.
you do?
I work at, mainly the Expressway Site is where I work .
I do too.
okay .
you know too, that, taxes less, if you live in Mesquite.
some people will go shopping in Mesquite at the malls out there,
up to Collin County, somewhere that you're getting out of the, Dallas County area because,
what do we pay, eight and a half percent,
Eight point five.
something like that for the, sales tax.
Which, that really is pretty high.
Is it the s ,
is it, less in Collin County than it is in Dallas County?
I think so, although I really, don't go up there too much, normally just kind of go to Richardson Square Mall, or Valley View Mall just kind of for the convenience, *
. I guess maybe if I was going to buy a car or something,
maybe I would consider where I was buying it, to try to,
save a little bit on that sales tax, because on a car that really kind of mounts up .
it sure did
once you could deduct at least some of that, your income tax
you can't do that anymore.
It really hit me yesterday, I had, air conditioning service for my car done.
I had a little, little, coupon special that was twenty two dollars
for, air conditioning service where they, checked it and recharged it and put pound of freon in
if you needed another pound of freon they ga ,
was seven dollars and something.
twenty two dollars and the seven something, it all came out to, ended up paying like thirty four dollars.
I couldn't believe it and the tax, really hits you. *
that's true.
Although I wish, overall they'd try the lottery again.
When did you first come to Texas? .
I've been here for nine years. *
Okay, that's about the same time as me, I came down in eighty two. *
Really, where did you come from?
Ohio, kind of.
My parents live in Ohio.
I had lived a little while in Michigan,
basically I went to high school and college in Ohio and lived there more years than I ever did in Michigan.
I did visit, Michigan, I visited Kalamazoo once.
My sister used to live there.
okay .
when we first came down here, I really thought this place was somewhat backward, I was just shocked that we couldn't shop on Sunday.
Remember that? .
That's true, I tell you what hit me the first year I was here, Christmas eve in New York there used to be stores open, the department stores wouldn't close, *
I'd say they closed maybe eight or nine o'clock, department stores, on Christmas eve.
there were stores that you could go to, like discount stores and stores down in the village and just all over the place where you could go to
you could shop until twelve or one o'clock that night
that was really the only night they were open that late,
it was Christmas eve.
when I came to Dallas, I thought I was going to do that Christmas eve
I couldn't find hardly anything open,
after five o'clock in the afternoon.
Were you shocked like, I'm stuck I need to buy stuff.
An was stuck .
I think Target was the one that stayed open later than else.
I was able to pick up a few things in there,
really shocked.
another shock I had when I went to, to buy a slice of pizza ,
and found out that I had to buy the whole pie.
few places now seem to do it by the slice
back then they didn't.
When I first came, no.
there was other things too, I think it's taken us Yankee's influence down here,
to get them to, come to the, the correct decade here and century.
I couldn't believe that you could have open containers of beer, alcohol, whatever,
in the car!
you could always, be careful about that back then because,
if a cop stopped you then you would, get arrested or what not.
people would just drink openly.
talking about alcohol and beer, look at the taxes on that,
and the taxes on a package cigarettes.
I used to smoke,
that would have been enough make give them up.
The price of them now,
I gave them up a couple years ago because I had some sinus problems.
W ,
I don't smoke,
I don't really know what the,
taxes are and stuff on it.
they're like two,
believe they're hitting two dollars a pack now.
more in some places.
you end up about paying about twelve dollars for a pack and two dollars of that is taxes.
I believe it's a little more than twelve dollars for a carton, *
I think it's maybe thirteen or something.
I remember we went Oklahoma to this bingo place. This Choctaw Bingo, a couple weeks ago
somebody that went with me bought a carton for, ten dollars and something
they really thought they were getting a big discount.
They're cheaper there?
it's, the Indians, I don't think they pay tax.
I got you,
it was a Indian, it's a bingo hall for the benefit of the Indians there.
Although I didn't see very many Indian people in there .
There were just bus loads of people that come from everywhere else to play that bingo because the stakes are higher and payoffs are bigger and so forth.
how did you do?
I won a dollar .
A dollar,
you had fun playing, right.
I had fun, a couple on the bus won some money.
guy won t ,
do you have any pets?
a number of them in my lifetime
I am a Golden retriever fan,
I had to replace it with something that the kids could carry.
Oh .
Instead of being carried .
they were,
they really wanted something teeny tiny,
I, really wanted that retriever's disposition.
the ultimate to tolerant, trainable disposition,
I called four or five dog trainers because I don't like the little dogs.
I asked them, these are the ages of the kids, what do I get.
they all said, Golden Retriever
I said okay,
put it under twenty pounds.
the only thing that they could come up with was a Bichon Frize which is a,
Do you know what that is?
I've seen those.
They're cute.
They're cute.
They look like an air headed (( )) let me tell you.
They're calm, they're not (( yuppie )) , they're trainable, they're, very personable in a different way that a Golden Retriever is.
They're not dignified like a retriever can be.
how old is your retriever?
she's about four.
She's not completely pure.
We got her from the, Humane Society when she was a puppy.
She looks like a Gol ,
she looks just like a Golden Retriever,
she's a little bit smaller.
She's like fifty five pounds.
that's the breed standard for females.
What you,
Is it?
what you see shown and bred now as Golden Retrievers, this, plus eighty to a hundred pound range.
That is not breed standard.
Fifty five is the minimum
they usually run about sixty to sixty five.
the ones that are shown, they are inside that weight allowance.
You cannot show your retriever if it's, a hundred plus pounds.
don't say she's small,
just say she's perfect.
She's perfect.
she's got a brown nose instead of black too.
Which makes her, I guess, unshowable,
even if she had papers which she doesn't
we love her anyway.
She's just a lot of company to us.
We didn't,
we haven't had any kids
we're expecting a baby this summer,
up until then, she's been our substitute kid
she was a lot of fun.
the ultimate dog to have around kids so long as your kid is not scared of a big dog,
because I had a retriever, actually I had a retriever Irish Setter cross.
Which is a really nice animal
fortunately it was just like a retriever
I've had a retriever.
I bet it had a pretty coat too.
It was gorgeous.
It was just gorgeous. just gorgeous.
they both,
both the half breed and the pure breed had what I consider the perfect disposition.
scares me about Golden Retrievers?
Huh *
Since they've become so popular you get what I call backyard breeders.
Yeah. *
Which is probably where yours came from. People that don't know what they're doing, and they breed them, for a certain characteristic.
in the retrievers it happens to be they like them big, for somehow big is perceived as the better.
when you start doing that you really tamper with, all years of, culling litters
you tamper with what the dog innately is.
We w ,
when I was,
when I bought my last purebred retriever I looked all over because I wanted one that still looked like a retriever, the short to the ground, stocky, golden, trainable, tractable, quiet
animal that could hunt and still be in the house.
I ended up getting one that, came out of a hunting stock
because I wanted one that could still perform like a retriever did.
I've seen an awful lot of lately really dumb,
dumb retrievers
I'm, I really fear for the breed because I love that breed,
I really figure right when it becomes really popular that it's going to be ruined.
We have some friends with a brother and sister Golden retriever
those dogs have been having seizures,
I wonder since both of them are having them if it's some kind of breeding
You bet you.
You bet you.
You know how they came up with the retriever, don't you, the Golden?
It was bred out of several different retrievers,
they bred it for companionship and, disposition ability to hunt.
It was kept only by kings.
they selectively culled those litters, for many hundreds of years
since it slept in the castle with its master, (( )) to be of a disposition to make it, an animal you could keep around that closely.
they would go through all the litters and destroy the puppies if they were anything other than perfect.
Now, that seems like a cruel thing to do.
On the other hand, they sure created wonderful breed,
They did.
a wonderful breed.
had never really had a Golden retriever before.
We were going to get a shepherd and something mixed because my husband's family had had shepherds
all the other,
we looked at some of the shepherd mixes and the puppies weren't very, social and stuff.
we went to a pen of a little bit bigger dogs
all the others were standing there barking and jumping up and down.
one dog would stand there wagging her tail and smiling .
I tell you,
was mine.
German shepherd is the classic case of what I'm talking about because in America that's called a Rin Tin Tin phenomena.
Only in America is there a dog called a German Shepherd.
That dog is bred out of three European dogs. The Belgian Tervurien, a German Skutzhund, and a , I always forget the third one. I can see it.
i ,
the third one is a children's dog.
there are distinct breeds in Europe.
Now what happened over here was is that people saw first, which would actually have been a Skutzhund which is what Rin Tin Tin was.
everybody wanted Rin Tin Tin.
it was known as a German shepherd here.
they created a breed standard. The American Kennel Club did.
That said anything that is a Skutzhund, Tervurien and, any inner breeding of that can be called a German shepherd here.
what happened is, is that people wanted this shepherd to shepherd and protect.
they bred a dog that it's called an animal's critical span which basically translates to how much shit will it take before it bites you.
That German shepherd, the American German Shepherd here was such an unreliable animal that the American Seeing Eye Institute
refused to use them,
because they would turn handlers.
even, police corps which started, finding other breeds to use because thing known as a German shepherd here, its personality and its dependability and its reliability was just terrible.
about fifteen years ago the German Shepherd Club of America decided amongst themselves that they were going to change this.
they went back to Europe and brought back some good examples of each of the three breeds
and bred to a standard what they wanted an American German shepherd to be. Which is a very heavily now Skutzhund and Alsatian,
it's the Alsatian that's the kid's dog.
It's just,
you see them in Europe
they're just lovely.
you'll see,
if you ever start looking in papers now and you start seeing these ads for German Shepherds, they will say on them, bred for disposition, A K C (( conforming ))
which means that their advertising that this is no longer an indiscriminate dog.
This is bred for,
they had to go through and destroy for a while there, about seventy five percent of their puppies that they bred.
they were looking for this disposition.
nowadays get, you'll get a dog trainer to recommend a specific, breeder handler.
They will recommend their shepherds as a children's dog.
I'll start off being controversial.
I'm in favor of it.
That doesn't necessarily mean you're controversial.
it seems to be in the current situations
I still feel that it could be a deterrent to crime. Particularly with the increase of serious crime that's going on now.
I think that those crimes which are punishable by the death sentence, need to be reevaluated.
I think there are other crimes that could easily draw the death penalty and not make me feel bad at all.
I think,
Crimes against children is one of them.
crimes against person,
I feel, there should be more than a slap on the hand,
and being sent to prison and being released in, two or three years.
I would like to see the system revert a lot back to some of the forms of punishment that exist in Middle Eastern countries.
If you steal, you lose a hand.
That's a,
if you kill, you lose your life.
What's wrong with that?
I don't see a thing wrong with that.
I believe that,
it's just example.
I think there's, someone that's on trial right now
here in the Dallas area,
they were interviewing the, the,
a young lady was killed sometime back,
a young girl.
A personal trial and the reporter was asking a stupid question of the people outside. *
how do you feel about this?
how do they feel about it, I'm sure that, they want it over with *
they want the person punished and punished,
. Deciding what that proper punishment is, is one thing.
I think that there should be no way, realize that innocent people could go to, what is it, lethal injection now.
Innocent people could do that,
for every innocent person who would be executed, hopefully there would be ten guilty.
I feel like cost of someone who's quoting figures (( made the )) cost,
(( at )) thirty thousand dollars,
a year
to keep someone in prison.
To maintain a prison inma ,
that's right.
That's stupid.
the problem there is they're not keeping the right ones in prison in many cases.
There are more,
and more instances being on the news,
this individual was out on the streets,
on probation or parole and killed someone else.
seriously injured someone.
I don't have solutions to the problems,
you have these,
this would be nice
there's probably thousands of holes in that theory,
I think that if you did something, for example, to an individual and caused them to lose the ability to earn a living, I remember a man drove by randomly shot a woman in the head while she was driving *
blinded her.
I think then that a life sentence to restitution is appropriate.
I think he should spend the rest of his life working to support that individual
or the family of an individual.
who has been harmed
People who kill policemen.
Policemen who are killed in the line of duty. *
They may or may not have been willfully intending to kill that policeman, but that family still has no provider. *
I s ,
Here again, anytime anyone goes out with a gun in their hand and crime on their mind
the opportunity exists for someone to get killed.
That's right.
Now I'm not in favor of gun control to the (( )) degree or anything because, there are uses for guns which are noncriminal
it seems that the criminal element are the ones that are using them. aside from domestic disputes, husbands shooting wives or vice versa.
these individuals, if they have a gun with them, I think that sentence should be even longer than if they don't.
agree with the length,
of the sentence though.
I think expediency is the answer.
here again, if a matter of expediency,
part of these costs like the people on Death Row
is that their appeals can take years and years.
That's right.
There should be some,
I know there's a law, I believe, that it's automatic appeal if it's a death sentence.
I think that automatic appeal ought to take place, within a reasonable length of time, say six months.
And a decision be made and not drag out in the courts for years,
because of misplaced commas or whatever technicalities,
That's right,
there might be.
I think that there should be a statute of limitations on appeals.
there's got to be a,
Yo ,
you can appeal it once.
there's got to be a time limit.
I think if it is appealed one time and the appeal is turned down or the sentence stands, then you might be allowed one more appeal it is,
legitimate appeal,
not a technicality,
That's right.
if, they're not arguing that the guy or woman committed the crime.
They're arguing over, were his civil rights violated because,
someone didn't file the proper paper at the proper time.
Those are the things that have caused them to drag out I think.
That's right.
one of the sad things is that so many of these never actually come to trial because the process in which the criminals were apprehended.
you know the guy is guilty.
You know he's done what he's done.
may have stood there and seen it.
because he wasn't read his rights whenever he was arrested,
He didn't see his,
goes free.
lawyer as quickly as he should have,
or some,
some Mickey Mouse type thing like that.
I realize that that is designed to protect the innocent.
It's also designed to line the pockets of lawyers.
yes .
just don't think that,
I think we could get along a lot better in our criminal justice system if we had some statute of limitations on lawyers .
I hope you're not a lawyer .
I'm not a lawyer .
I'm an accountant
I agree.
We practice law ourselves because it's too expensive to hire lawyers,
to a degree.
That's why you check books out from the library.
There you go.
I really believe that our justice system the best around
it's not perfect,
that doesn't mean that you leave it in tact. *
a case that we have legal system which the criminals have found a way to use and a way to benefit them rather than the public itself.
That's right.
That's right.
that's how we get caught in this,
sort of a catch twenty two.
That's right.
you have to continue, to protect the innocent you're giving an open door to the guilty.
That's right.
I don't know there just seems to be so many clever ways to avoid the real intent of the law by following the letter.
that just,
that really does ruffle my feathers,
Yes .
at times.
It does,
I can just get so,
most people.
aggravated about it.
going to take smarter people than me to solve the problem .
I hope,
Again one of our
not lawyers .
one of our problems is that, our legislature and the state and our national congress, the majority of the members thereof are lawyers.
if you had to pick type of music that you like, would you be able to? *
I could pick country music. *
Country music?
As I've gotten older, I've started listening more to the words of music
and to the softer melodies.
are you from Texas? *
Not originally.
Not originally.
Where you from?
from Chicago,
, I'm kind of in a different category here.
If you had to pick one, what would you choose?
I would probably go with,
it's tough, I think I would just stick with the classics. Only because, I like music just for music's sake
, I'm from the era where, we had all the rock and roll.
I'm forty
I'm, part of that whole deal
that was a real interesting time
the music sort of made the whole time very rich with sound.
I think I'd stick back with my Beethoven and my Bach and my Mozart .
it's just,
it will always be there.
It's classic
I don't have to worry about, what's current and what's not because I haven't been current with music for a long time.
as far as country music is, I've never really, listened to it.
that's just,
it was,
it wasn't part of what I knew,
there you go .
I understand what you're saying.
I think if you would listen to it a little, you would discover that it has a lot of roots classics and from some of the rock and roll of the era we both lived through.
a different perspective on everything, too.
know, whenever they talk about, country music, it seems sad to me.
It's always about some guy losing some girl and then, playing the guitar and singing about it.
there's some joy in it also.
mostly just tells a story about life.
I must say, though, I listen to Amy Grant.
Do you consider her country?
I don't know.
I'm not all that familiar with her work.
let's see. name some people that are country that I should listen to .
That would be good.
groups like the Statler Brothers.
And the Judds, certainly.
must admit they're fantastic,
Reba McIntire is a little too country for me.
She's something, though.
She's got so much energy .
That's true.
I guess have listened in on some of the stuff and not really realized it that I do like some of that.
Dolly Parton, she's kind of,
is she kind of country?
Kind of .
That's certainly where her roots are.
Right down there.
how about the Oak Ridge Boys.
Very much so.
Very much.
I like them, too.
I guess I've had a smattering
I just, picked,
I've picked up a little bit along the way that I probably wouldn't have if I'd stayed up north,
That's true.
I think there's music all around anyway.
I think life is just music,
you can hear it wherever you want
kind of shied away from some of the new stuff because I just don't understand it.
maybe twenty years from now they'll look at it as classic rock and roll which I really like
it's just difficult for me to believe that anybody's ever going to make record of the rap songs of the eighties.
the greatest hits,
if it stands the test of time, we'll see.
That's true.
if it survives, then it'll just probably be one or two songs that sort of, listen what we listened to .
Can you believe this sort of thing,
think of,
I get real tickled when I listen to some of these old Beatle, music, the orchestration of it and that it's so popular still
all these rock stations call it classic soft rock, .
we used to listen to it full blast .
Of course.
it's kind of funny the way we listened to the stuff,
I don't know.
you got any more?
the big key is that, I think you've already stated, that all music is rooted in the classics
it has grown from there.
I have to run, I hate to cut *
it was great.
this short.
we'll, listen to some more music
I'll look at some country.
You bet.
Bye bye
Bye bye.
we can start.
How many children do you have?
I have four.
How many do you have?
I have two children and, two stepdaughters.
we have four altogether, too.
running ragged these days?
mine are all grown .
they are.
Oh .
the topic for me,
can only now to my grandchildren.
I do keep my,
Impart me some wisdom, Catherine .
I do take care of my youngest granddaughter, most every Saturday.
my daughter and her husband work Saturdays.
My daughter is, doing a schedule of, twenty four hours on the weekend,
she gets paid for forty.
Dave is, in supervisory work
he has to work almost every Saturday
How old is your granddaughter?
She's three.
she's a little one.
little .
She's says how are you doing grandma today.
Oh .
Whoa .
Are you surviving.
Is she your oldest child?
she's my baby.
She's my baby,
She was a miracle baby.
Was she?
she really was.
that's nice.
Now do your other grandchildren live in the Dallas area?
they do,
Do you get to see them?
They really do,
How nice.
What a treat.
being from Plano, I know so very few people who have extended family in town.
I'm real jealous when I hear that somebody has a grandma around
we don't,
that's really wonderful.
It is,
it is.
just so that they get to know their grandparents, but also for help .
have that luxury.
we have lots of friends,
everybody tends to be in the same boat.
trade off a whole lot with friends and, run here and run there.
We're right smack dab in the middle of baseball season right now.
we have three playing baseball.
that's marvelous.
they keep you hopping, I'm sure.
They definitely do.
I know, that, one of the ladies I know, they are very involved with their little girl
I think it's excellent because she's getting qualified quality time
for, her musical, talents
her sports abilities
I think because she is, the only child that they concentrate, they would like to have more,
that hasn't been, possible.
she's tried many, avenues
now it's just, that she's kind of resolved herself that, this is going to be the only one .
she devotes,
they're focusing on all of her, welfare.
our kids,
my daughter sings with Younger Generation, I don't know if you've ever heard of them.
There they're a singing group here in Plano.
they're part of the Plano Children's Chorus.
they're going to Washington, D. C. next December . to sing for President Bush at the White House at Christmas time.
how wonderful.
Isn't that neat?
That's wonderful.
we have been really up to our eye balls in fund raising and trying to get,
that's wonderful.
it is.
It is.
she plays softball
my son plays baseball
my stepdaughter plays softball
tend to do a lot of running.
Things are very different nowadays than when I grew up
they are.
I'm sure when your children grew up you didn't,
I don't remember doing all these things.
I certainly don't remember my parents running me here and there and supporting me in all these things,
we had more, I guess family time alone
where we did nothing.
Now I think
Which was good.
everything is doing, doing, doing, out of the house.
Which can be very hectic.
It can be
sometimes kind of long for the good old days when
it wasn't so he ,
we didn't do all these running.
on the other hand, we just love watching the kids play and getting to know the other parents
we've had a lot of fun with that, too.
You have to look on that, on the, positive side of that.
It's just different.
it is.
It's just a different lifestyle.
It's just very different.
My, second grandson is in A Cappella
I know what you're talking about when he's involved, the children are involved
in that,
he's been,
he has traveled
they have won awards,
know, *
Yes. *
I know where you're coming from
very nice.
It is very nice.
I think, those type of children, that are involved in things like that, their, goals are going to be set higher than the average child that are not participating in things.
I think so,
I think they've learned a whole lot about being part of a team, whether the team is your singing group, your band, your
your sports team
Going to,
you all have to pull together.
a team effort,
I've been real pleased with that, too.
I think they've learned some real good life skills. being
involved in all those things.
That's wonderful.
That's really is
nice to have in your background, that, then you can be very flexible.
there's less, friction involved in relationships when you add that skill
of teamwork.
a lot of people that are adults are having to go back and learn those basics when our children are already learning that.
I think it's a giant step of progress, I really do.
Give me some wonderful advice Catherine.
What is the best advice of mothering that you know? .
The best of,
Besides don't sweat the small stuff .
Cathy, I think if you look to the Word of God
that's good, that's real good advice.
and, think on the things that are pure and lovely
keep your mind off of negative things.
keep your mind on positive things
stress that to your children.
discouraged, tell them that that's just a passing moment
and to dwell on those things that are, not negative and that are positive things in their life
I think you'll see a lot of growth their ability to, control their thought pattern
when you employ the Word of God there's nothing as powerful as the Word of God.
I would agree with that.
We're also real active in our church
my kids do an awful lot with that.
Allyson sings in the choir.
I told her that's a gift from God
you need to return that back.
That's right.
back to God because he's given you that ability and that talent
that's real nice.
I'm real proud of her.
I'm equally proud of her when I see her in church as I am when I see her performing.
that's, that's real neat.
if she looks,
if she looks at it as you suggest that's, that she can give her talent back to the Lord for His glory
and she can look at it that way that's ...
do you work outside the home?
I do not.
wow .
Do you?
Have you?
Have I?
not actually .
yes I do.
In fact, I am at work right now.
let me take the lead, Angela.
I think what is really important,
of course, salary is very important, because that's why you are working for the money, job satisfaction to me is also, very important in having a job.
one of the things that, she asked us to discuss was benefits.
I'm assuming that you are married and have a husband that supports you.
talk about, that path, how important you think his benefits are. and, how important you think they are and what would you like to see increased
in his benefits.
Like, perhaps, he has,
the benefit of having eyeglasses for the family, and how much coverage, it provides and also, your hospital coverage, and, probably dental.
How important you think that would be.
think that job wise benefits are just as important as salary is.
of course, if you did not have them, you would be pulling from your salary, of course.
Especially when you have a family, with children, and you are always going to the doctor for,
they always have surprises for you.
With children,
they always do.
we could not do without the benefit package any company that we worked whether they be a conglomerate or just a small, business.
I think even if your insurance policy is not the greatest.
You would still have something.
would not be pulling it out of your account all of the time
just by yourself.
Also, for working women
I think a lot of the companies should start providing for day care
in the building.
They are getting a handle on that, in fact, my oldest daughter a nurse
she just received her masters degree
she is now into consulting
that's one of the areas that she is working on. To have, a day care center for the children nurses that are staffing the facility.
that is true in many, many areas of, job titles
and professions.
in may case, I have three children *
from ages nine to two.
it's just unfeasible for me to try to get a job because all the money that I would,
it would,
be making would be going to day care.
It would be just futile.
it would be just,
they would not have the quality,
basically be me working to pay for them to be at a day care,
would be deprived of their mother.
I understand that totally .
Besides which, it would be easier, there's a lot of single mothers out there now, from divorces and a lot of,
I (( hear )) ,
women are starting to have babies without a partner.
that's true.
to go to work, you are worried about your child, besides which you have to get up earlier to take the child to day care.
if they were in the same building
then you are going to the same place,
you could go for your lunch hour down and visit with your child,
Do you,
and take your breaks with your children, or something.
Do you think that you should fund that if they have that as a benefit, if you would fund that somewhat from your salary that you are getting?
Do you think that would be,
I think tha ,
think it would be fair.
I do too.
I think the company could not provide it all on their own,
that you,
people that would be using it,
a certain amount of their salary would go to it.
That's right.
it would still probably be cheaper ,
With the company than,
with the company helping,
than having to go,
if everybody, pulled their own weight in it.
That's (( )) ,
that's right.
I think it would be really.
agree with that.
really great.
That would be fair.
I do.
do you feel about, let's see, eye care?
Eye care is good.
I do not,
I am not sur ,
I do not think we have that on our policy.
Vision, I guess it's called,
vision care.
It would be great, the glasses that,
the exams themselves are not expensive, it's the glasses.
It depends on who examines your eyes.
that's true.
If you have (( )) optometrist or an ophthalmologist,
now like my ...
there's a vast difference in those two,
like my mother, she has to go for testing cause she has got,
she does not have it,
she is on the verge of it or,
Her eyes are changing,
she has to be tested periodically.
those are expensive tests.
they are.
Now, I think your insurance covers her
on that,
for something like that, that's just as bad as a medical,
that's critical, because she's in need of it so often.
we have, needs in our life that are unique to us
people have needs in their life that unique to us, to them.
we are all different
Now, I would like to see better dental insurance to me.
Was that our beep?
that's my other phone.
that's it
that's okay,
that phone is ringing to an empty desk
she's on vacation,
it's okay.
with the three children
orthopedic care, not orthopedic, orthodontic care,
That's very expensive.
because a lot of the dental insurance, they do not cover that well.
For orthodontia stuff.
that's true.
Orthodontic work is terribly expensive.
it is.
Especially when you have a lot of problems with the children teeth,
you have to really get them when they are young, in order to have, not, a decent smile when they are fifteen, sixteen years old.
I know, two of my daughters had to have that
they started having extractions at age eight, because they just had too many teeth for their size mouth.
we footed the bill, because there was not any such thing when they were young.
My middle child needs to have, orthodontic, because his, his pallet is squared, not rounded.
it affects his speech a little bit, anything,
just enough that his bite is off a little bit
it's like four hundred dollars,
my insurance is only going to cover fifty of it.
I tell you just read an article in the paper about what they are doing, I think it was an ad our publication at Texas Instruments, where they are breaking the jaw and,
and lining the jaw up with the teeth.
less painful and less expensive.
That sounds like it would hurt more.
it's, easier on the patient in the long run,
which amazed me.
would much rather do that,
to myself than make my five year old go in and do it.
That would kill me.
Do you have any personal feelings the subject?
capital punishment is a hard thing,
there's been several,
there have been several things that have happened where I felt like if I had been involved in it I would have had go along that being the punishment given the people.
There have been some things,
there's things done that are just ,
So outrageous.
I know,
I know.
that I do not know how,
I do not really there's any other way to deal with it.
guess my concern is what we are reading, especially in Texas right now with them letting the people out of jail as soon as they are out of prison and having them go right back the day they get out, back in crime.
I think that
And especially when they are assaulting,
that's a really,
people and then killing people, the man who,
killed those three sheriffs deputies, he is out free, walking the street.
I have a real problem,
if it's a,
with that.
(( if it's a )) clear and present danger, it,
I think so.
it's something that's really hard to deal with, the way that our justice system is right now, is basically set up in lawyers
will tell you that, it is set up right now, all the laws protect the criminal.
They are the ones with the rights.
They have the right to,
I think I watched something last week, (( )) , the accused has the right to a speedy trial.
the victim
Does not have the right . *
does not have emphasis on those things,
Right. *
as far as they are concerned,
now the accused ask for delays and extensions
what do they call,
whatever they call them,
meanwhile, the witnesses,
move and die
there's no one to face them.
They can get continuances on for years, before the thing ever comes to trial
that makes the victim suffer,
The (( )) ,
they can not get any, if the judge is going to have any award to the victim, it just puts off their collecting it. *
that too.
it's really bad,
I think there needs to be a way that, once someone has gone through, a trial, I do not know how to fix it.
it just seems like should be a limit on how many appeals can be made.
when someone has been,
A time limit too.
(( ha , ))
Do not let it, *
when someone ha ,
drag on for fifteen years, *
even when someone has been convicted
it's just abundantly clear that they did it.
appealing, and continuing to appeal, four or five or six times.
To have convictions overturned
they have to be retried and all that.
It's such a waste of time and energy and money.
that's what keeps,
that's what is keeping all the criminals in a position of being able to be released all the time, like this.
Do you feel like there's any certain type of crime that this should be the results, they should be consequences of capital punishment,
are there some murders committed that you think leniency should be shown.
I guess there's extenuating circumstances to anything like that.
could see, a first time offender maybe, (( )) robbery situation, trying to hold up a store and getting scared and, firing a gun and accidently killing someone.
I could see that that might be the situation where, the person could be rehabilitated.
I think just out and out murder, and I am talking about, cutting people up
where there's shown to be pathological tendencies where this person has done it over and over again, in a serial fashion or whatever . That those,
kinds of things and kind of violent assault, rape included,
needs to addressed in that context .
how do you feel about murders of law officers or fire people or something that are, because they have had them, they have had them killed when they have,
what bothers me,
that bothers me a great deal,
I had a friend who was a police officer, who was killed in the line of duty.
the thing that was the worst about it is that two of these individuals were, all of the individuals involved were very young.
One was technically a minor,
he was sent back to Mexico, *
he was an illegal alien, the other two had lived here, they had graduated from high school here, *
they had told their teachers that
repeatedly during high school, they had told their teachers graduate from high school and kill cops .
That was their goal. *
That was what they had told their,
that's what they did .
given, I think,
That would be premeditated .
He stopped them for routine traffic violation
They killed him. *
things happened that night
beat him up and took his gun and shot him
with it.
really terrible.
I had seen him three or days before that.
we had gone out, with he and his wife
that was disturbing ,
that that happened.
these people, course of the trial, came up all these, things about they were disadvantaged and all this stuff.
nobody is that disadvantaged .
that's right,
there's no reason,
there's just no rea ,
for murder.
I do not care if you are poor or if you are rich or if you are,
ugly or what just beyond,
I think so too.
do feel strongly about.
I think this giving excuses is pretty prevalent, I work in the school district *
all these kids, they have got an excuse for everything.
I can see it continuing on when they are adults.
I just,
it's just a bad habit, kids have got to learn from the time they are real little, there's no excuse being bad or making bad choices deliberate or anything. *
It's, it's,
sometimes think if I were on a jury and had to make the decision could I.
I like to think I could, like you,
especially violent crime,
where serial type killer or maybe a child has been deliberately killed.
The thing that even though juries sometimes make the decision
still the people, nothing ever happens to them.
they stay in jail, they get off time for good behavior and all that stuff, and they get released .
they go right back and do it again.
Do you work?
I do.
I think that's the main change.
What do you think?
I think that's a big part of it
think it maybe started because women wanted outside of the home
I almost think with our society inflation and the cost of things anymore couples have to work outside the home.
That's right.
I think that's a big change .
I'd like to not work.
What about you?
I've worked all the time up until just about a year ago.
I just,
physically I wasn't able to
I love my job.
I have four children,
that's real hard.
You have children?
I assume so.
I have two
that's been a big deciding factor because I never wanted to be a career woman,
as long as I was going to work I was going to do much as I could,
as well as I could et cetera.
wanted to stay home when I had kids.
I have two.
I have a four year old and a three year old.
we would like two more
it's like, we talked. I don't want two more unless I can quit and stay home and take care,
of them which is,
something right now financially it takes both people to work.
It's real hard.
It's real hard.
even I,
It's full time work.
It was so hard for me to work full time.
Of course, my kids a little older
give up the money.
You know?
You do there's sa ,
of course, everything you give up something
I just,
the kids are so wonderful .
(( )) .
I do think that's one of the major changes. D You know,
my mama I remember her being home
(( Fine )) .
she made breakfast in the morning for us.
I know.
if she worked it was part time
it was work that was done while we were maybe at school,
she was there when we got home.
I've decided now in fact, I'm substitute teachers aid which is afar cry from my travel agent career,
which I loved.
there in the same school as my children, my two littler ones.
I'm home when they are home.
In fact, I've had an offer to just work the Christmas season at a local jewelry store,
I'm just really hesitating,
because I enjoyed the first summer home ever,
seventeen years with my kids.
I didn't have babies or day care working as a travel agent
it was wonderful.
My kids and I, we just had a ball.
I think,
Of course, ages, they are almost seventeen
sixteen, fourteen, eleven, and nine
we are just running every direction
it's such an important time to be home.
It is.
It is.
was important to me enough,
my husband was raised,
parents were divorced when he was young so his mom always worked,
Always worked.
he's like what's the big deal about being home,
What, yeah.
for your kids.
as our kids are getting older, he sees it more.
I said, Russ, you don't understand what it was like to have her home or if you needed,
Mom at school, she was there to help
she was there to take you,
I want to be able to do those things
I think that, it's good.
sometimes I'll have the cookies ready when they,
come home
a lot of my boys, my older boys' junior high friends will come over.
In fact, everyday,
I've got boys hanging around,
it's wonderful .
I'm real close to the schools
we are just
very happy to be staying home.
I think that's wonderful.
again I miss,
where do you see,
the (( )) .
us changing in the future?
I don't.
that was one of the things question I think is,
I (( keep on working )) .
what changes do we see
not sure see it go anywhere.
I think they are still going to have to work.
That we are because it's so expensive.
If we want, extra clothes, the extra car, the extra,
The thing is, when a woman does work, then there is the clothes to buy,
there is the gas,
there is the lunches and then the day care.
The day care eats,
(( You must pay for )) ,
me alive.
day care.
I pay four hundred fifty to five hundred fifty,
a month
my gosh.
for two kids .
for two.
They would eat you,
It's almost hardly worth it for you,
to work until they get in school.
I know.
Then you work summers unless you are a teacher.
Are you a teacher?
I'm not,
(( )) .
I would love,
you talked about having the summers off
I thought, that would be so wonderful.
(( )) .
I love the little preschool they are in.
It's wonderful.
I feel good about them being there
it's still not the same.
It's not the same.
It's just not.
don't see things changing really,
it's terrible for divorced women
who are forced to work who maybe don't have a college education.
Thank goodness I have mine,
I could get a real good paying job,
if I wanted to, in fact, I still have offers, please come back,
Please come back to work.
(( we'll pay you this )) .
it's been a real tough decision
I'm very happy to be here with my kids.
My kids, we've seen a remarkable difference in,
That's wonderful.
(( now )) that I'm home.
That's wonderful.
I'm real,
I've been doing a lot of volunteering at the schools and playing lots of tennis .
I like that.
(( I know )) .
we're working on it.
I'm hoping in about three to five years I'll be able to stay home
my kids, of course, will be in school then
(( Right )) .
be there mornings, I'll be there noons,
I'll be there afternoons and all.
I feel like,
that's good
I can work part days in my husband's business, so that,
that would be great.
he can afford for us to do that,
I think other thing has changed for woman because we are working is we are having less children.
that's the state that was famous when they executed somebody.
Gary Gilmore.
Gary Gilmore.
By firing squad, as I recall.
That's right,
we still have a death penalty.
a gentleman, that was one of the hi fi murderers just had his conviction overturned, appealed again.
I guess we have the longest, running inmates for death row too.
we had another guy, Ronald Lafferty, that thought God told him to kill his sister in law.
He just got new trial because,
the judge felt that he was incompetent.
how do you feel about the death penalty?
I, yo ,
until recently I've been sort of,
could go either way,
sort of doesn't much,
it didn't,
it wasn't a strong issue, I guess it still isn't a strong issue.
I must say, I find it very silly, the way politicians are running around creating more and more capital crimes,
instead of dealing with the real problems getting votes (( presumably )) by,
I assume they're doing it for that reason .
I'm sure that's (( )) .
by saying this particular crime in this particular way is a capital crime now.
I kind of agree with terrorism.
I think those guys should be done away with.
That's one of the worst,
crimes in my book
drug dealing,
that's close
terrorism definitely. And
selling out your country.
enough just to lock them up forever.
it's got to be something that is going to cost them, because we never lock anybody up forever.
Not often.
Not very often at all.
We've got these guys in New York that, I'm sure you heard about, the ones that killed, the gentleman that came from Utah to watch the tennis
I guess they got convicted, the four, of
you've come to a definite opinion on it now?
seems like it's gotten carried away,
do find it hard to know where to draw a line,
if I had to draw a line, I'd say just no capital punishment.
I don't see that it accomplishes a whole lot, whereas I do think that convicting people incarcerating them for a long time, if that could be improved upon, that would have more impact, I think.
You kind of hate to,
what about the argument somebody who is committing one capital crime chooses to commit more serious capital crime?
murder, because that one at least, you might escape from because his victim, his witnesses will be gone .
You mean
More (( )) .
encourage murder, in order to wipe out the
The witnesses?
the witnesses?
maybe it would.
I kind of have a problem with our legal system at the moment, as it is.
I think that people who, infringe on other people's rights, and screw up their whole lives with rape, child molesting, terrorism, just
There's just like five things that I think they ought to be snuffed for,
for it for certain reasons.
I think that things like rape, you can't get over, it takes a lifetime.
I see,
William Kennedy Smith had been found guilty, you believe he should have been, executed?
if it was,
A six person jury could have decided either way, of course .
If it was, it would probably have to be a pattern.
we have plenty of convicted guys that go into jail and come back out, do the same thing and go back,
if they're habitual, like three times caught for rape or child molesting
then snuff them.
the (( )) problem is that they've just been let out of jail.
The problem there is that they've been let out jail.
If they've been thrice convicted, they should have been kept in longer.
we don't seem to keep them long enough,
they learn such bad things in jail.
That isn't
a place of rehabilitation.
for sure.
it's a tough question, isn't it, on whether, at what point do they become so detrimental to society that society can't afford to keep them around to
keep giving them chances.
let's see,
the other question that they wanted was whether the place that we live in, compares to how we feel .
What's the laws there in D C?
it seems like an unusual subject this time of the year
When was the last time you went?
The last time I went camping was about, in the middle of October,
we went up to Lake Bonham and really enjoyed it.
Had a real good time with the family.
We do an awful lot of camping.
How about yourself?
I haven't been in probably about three years.
the last time we went was in, I guess hunting season,
we went down to a hunting ground and a lake
Lake Sam Rayburn
which is in East Texas.
Very good.
I bet it's pretty over there.
It is real pretty.
let's see.
What do you think, what kind of
Do you do a lot of fishing?
camping, are you talking about?
Do you go out,
is camping for you in a motor home, or a trailer,
do you actually put up a tent
One of the ones that you pull along
you have,
is it pop up?
Pop up.
A pop up trailer, huh.
What do you have?
We have a tent.
A tent?
Yes .
I guess we really rough it.
we really enjoy that.
one thing, I've done all sorts of camping.
camped, in the snow on a glacier.
I've camped, basically almost anywhere, even to the point where we've had to backpack in and everything you carried in was what you had to use to sustain you for camping trip and had to pack it back out.
you're a serious camper.
we enjoy it, yeah.
since I've been married and with a family, we have to go where there's restrooms .
that makes sense.
And playgrounds, and so forth,
we really enjoy it.
also while I was growing up, we did have a trailer,
I camped in that trailer and in a tent and log cabins and so forth too.
So a lot of different things.
to answer your questions earlier, we do enjoy fishing,
I do go fishing.
Haven't done a whole lot down here.
We recently moved from the Rocky Mountain area up in, northern Utah down to here because of work, and, haven't been able to enjoy fishing like I used to up there, which is, clear water fishing and streams rivers.
when you all went camping is that what you normally,
what did you normally do?
We normally,
a lot of the fishing,
mainly what we did was we did a lot of hiking and exploring just going out and seeing what there was to see, in the area.
I guess probably just wherever you live at has a lot to do with what you're going to do when you go,
you do actually camp.
That's true,
that's true.
Did you ever travel around to what's that, the little camps whenever
No, *
ever done that?
never did that.
although I've stayed in K O A campgrounds, we've never done that just to go around and camp.
personally, when we were growing up and when we were going camping, I thought that was a little too structured of a camp ground.
that was mainly for people in motor homes had trailers and so on and so forth, where, we really wanted to go camping in a tent
K O A geared for the people that have a hookup.
That actually travel, what, city to city, state to state.
I started out basically camping in Boy Scouts,
we did an awful lot of that a Boy Scout group.
As I mentioned earlier, we went into wilderness areas
we camped in the snow, and in, snow caves,
That's probably where I first started, was in Girl Scouts.
All right.
you got a lot of that in, huh?
What do you like to do when you go camping?
let's see. like to go
normally I go with a whole group of friends
we just kind of go and hang out and just do fun stuff.
Enjoy it, huh .
Roast marshmallows.
Tell scary, or scary stories around the fire
or, take a deck of cards if we can actually see and, play cards and stuff.
of people I've talked to have said, isn't camping boring?
bored and not have anything to do,
I've found out that actually really enjoy getting away from the television, the telephone
it's relaxing.
Get out,
getting out and enjoying nature and each other as company when we're out camping.
kind of makes you appreciate a lot of the things you take for granted.
Running water
Running water
your hair dryer
and a private bathroom.
curling iron.
Yes .
What about your family.
Do your kids and everything like to?
they really do, they have a great time,
like I mentioned, been camping a couple of times this year
the last time was in October
we went up to Lake Bonham,
there was a playground for them
they had swings,
I'm Carol,
I'm calling from Garland, Texas.
this is (( ))
I'm in Dallas.
yesterday I talked to someone upstate, I'm not even sure where,
my husband talked to the people in Utah,
anyway, let me press one.
Okay .
let me see, I think we've only planned one family reunion in our life,
we don't do this too often.
most of my family's in California,
my husband's is in San Antonio,
we did this in San Antonio,
it was an experience that won't do again .
How big a family do you have?
it wasn't that big of a family,
it just got out of hand,
many people were coming that we were trying to figure out how much food we were going to need how much, beverages we were going to need and this and that,
it just grew and grew and grew,
when the time came, only about half that amount of people came.
it wasn't,
you have to really just get an accurate amount,
overall we all had a good time.
We saw people we hadn't see in a while
Did you have people coming from far away?
It was all in the San Antonio area .
just kept growing and growing and growing and growing,
we're going, my gosh.
the family lives too close together, they see each other too often
they don't take that kind of thing seriously.
they come from far away, they take it more seriously
I think you're right.
My family's not very big
we're kind of.
Your family's from where?
I have a brother lives in Indianapolis, a sister lives in Chicago, and my folks live back in Buffalo, New York.
I guess we have reunions about once a year or so.
We got together over Christmas.
My wife's family, all in,
most of them are in upstate New York.
They have family reunions every summer.
those are nice.
it is.
sure they're a lot more organized too, because they've done it before.
just something that plan on doing every summer.
They just have
That's great.
a weekend picnic,
every year everyone asks
when is it happening and where is it happening
they just plan on being here.
That makes a big difference, too.
I know everybody's real eager to participate.
that's great.
had a family reunion my mother in law at her seventy fifth birthday,
they managed to get just about into town, last November
including a number of people from out in California.
good, it,
it worked out very well.
One interesting thing that they did at the time is videotaped whole shebang
it made a nice remembrance the entire party.
more people want to come back again.
they want to come back.
that's good.
works pretty well that way.
grandmother in California is,
this is my dad's side of the family is planning a reunion, this spring,
we won't be going because, I don't know how they thought of this, it's going to be on a cruise,
it seems like most of the family is, going, all the nieces and all the grandchildren and all that are, most of them are going,
it's too costly for us.
anyway, they're going to go on a cruise,
it sounds really neat, it really does.
can go for that.
what do,
I guess interesting if you had a very extended family kind of involved a lot of people
cousins and things that you don't really know, that you've never met, it'd be interesting to meet a lot of those people.
I don't know how you would go about, getting them together,
would be,
a friend of mine, she plans her family reunion, every year,
they go camping,
she says they have the greatest time,
she says, usually everybody shows up in exception to maybe one person,
she said they all go camping,
they have a really good (( )) for the whole weekend.
I kind of wonder kind of tradition we're going to establish for our family.
I had hoped that kids get together at least regularly.
Right now we only have two children
What are your favorite T V shows?
I guess one of my favorite ones is CHEERS.
I always liked that one.
They're always so funny.
I also like the COSBY SHOW .
Those are probably my two favorites.
I rather enjoy the COSBY SHOW.
My wife and I both like COMMISH.
I've watched that one time
it was really good,
now that's on, what, Saturday night?
Is it Saturday night?
It's either Friday night,
it's either tonight or tomorrow night.
around here at least.
I guess
I can't,
it depends on what channel you're getting.
what system you're getting it through.
I saw it one time
I really liked it,
I just haven't, watched it since.
always enjoyed it.
seems to be kind of halfway between, something like ALL IN THE FAMILY and, HILL STREET BLUES.
I , i , i ,
it's a good show.
the episode that I watched, I liked him because even though he's a law enforcement officer, sometimes
You t ,
the laws are kind of ridiculous
and you need to sometimes break them to get your point across and for a good reason . *
he seems to do that sometimes .
H ,
he's tender hearted fellow.
I think that's what first drew us to him, the relationship between he and his wife kind of looks a lot like ours.
I thought it was a pretty good show.
I always like,
like to watch SIXTY MINUTES and TWENTY TWENTY.
I know watch COMMISH any chance we get.
used to be a big fan of STAR TREK,
that's kind of, th , th ,
it's gotten more and more to where they are so totally against, anything spiritual.
I've never gotten into the STAR TREK era .
real big fan of STAR TREK.
Used to be a Trekie, huh ?
pretty much, yeah.
I always enjoyed the show anyway .
STAR TREK's in a s , or the, STAR WARS set
one of the first STAR WARS movie?
I think I watched it like nineteen times.
my goodness.
You must have some of their lines memorized .
I did at one time .
Wow .
I was a pretty big fan of that sort of thing.
lot of science fiction work, too.
we don't do a whole lot of T V watching,
I don't know if you heard them or not, I got a twelve year old, twelve week old baby.
Twelve week, I was
going to say, I hear a baby in the background . *
I imagine
that and school it's not ,
that keeps you busy .
Between him and school, there's not much time left for
watching much T V.
expecting our first in about three months,
I know we won't be watching as much as we do now .
this one here is our first.
we're both full time students
That must be tough.
What are you hoping for, a boy or a girl?
It doesn't matter, just a healthy baby.
that's the best way, you haven't found out yet or anything, have you? *
we had a sonogram,
we told him not to tell us,
it's going to be a surprise .
That's the best way.
it's like finding out somewhere in July what you're going to get for Christmas.
. not
It's not as much
quite the same.
I agree .
I'm sure we'll be watching more, children oriented television shows.
I'm about half kid at heart anyway.
I am, too.
I, I,
I still watch cartoons sometimes, every once in a while , when my sister comes to visit
The new cartoons don't seem to be worth much,
a couple of the, ones Disney's doing aren't too bad
it seems like a lot of them are a lot more violent than they used to be.
I remember, the FLINTSTONES and the JETSONS
those were just kind of good old cartoons.
the worst of the violence in the FLINTSTONES was when somebody gave Fred a poke in the snoot.
shoot, blowing up galaxies and
and putting a curse on the whole planet, or on everything of this species, just all kinds of crud .
they wonder why kids turn out the way they do nowadays .
everything's mutations
and killing
Gone are the days of those things they use ,
what was it T N, Turner Broadcasting Network do the Saturday morning and Sunday morning cartoons, the old cartoons. They used to put between the first and second feature at the theatre.
Those old little ten minute jobs where, the real ballooned looking art work,
a ,
what would be your favorite meal to cook?
None to cook.
I don't like to cook .
Don't like to cook, huh?
Spaghetti, I guess, though.
I make a mean spaghetti.
Make a mean spaghetti, huh?
got kids?
M ,
Huh *
Just my husband and I and the two dogs.
what about yours?
my wife and I and we've got a thirteen week old baby
don't do much cooking for him yet.
I guess it's supposed to be dinner party, is that what they said?
what kind of menu would you plan for a dinner party
what kind of dishes you might have for it, or
some sort of thing like that.
we don't,
Let's see, a good dinner party
Think you,
I suppose it would just about depend on who was coming, I guess.
something light and easy.
If it was pretty informal
about anything.
Breast (( of chicken )) .
a bunch of people over and cook deer.
How do you usually cook your deer?
How do you usually cook your deer?
How do we usually?
On the grill, we'll take the back strap and soak it in Italian dressing for a couple of hours
and throw it on the grill
it is good.
I imagine.
Real good.
I would imagine it is.
Either that hamburgers, we really don't have dinner parties.
I understand.
We just had, deer stew sort of
it was deer steak stew.
, about a day, day and a half in the crock pot,
some deer steaks
in kind of a mushroom gravy.
some veggies in it.
Did you kill
Delic ,
the deer?
the times I've been out deer hunting, can go out in the woods unarmed and deer will be tripping over me and vice versa.
I get close to the woods with anything resembling a weapon
suddenly there isn't a deer within fifty miles.
this was given to us by some friends.
guy was hunting club
the whole group goes out hunting
at the end of the day, they split it
whoever brought it down gets the lion's share
the rest of it is split with the rest, with everybody in the group.
that's nice.
he wou ,
went out last year and almost everybody got it, the limit
everybody had deer coming out their ears.
we still got some from last year.
gave us some deer
some of it's still in the freezer
about eight months ago they gave it to us.
either crock pot deer
we'll, put it out on the grill so that,
the bulk of the tallow will dribble off of it.
We h ,
we usually have most of it made into, hamburger meat, though.
And cook, spaghetti with it.
That is good.
Deer spaghetti is real good.
Anyway, no,
I think if I was going to have a dinner party, I'd probably have, sandwiches or something along those lines and
then, just something light finger food sort of something or,
Or maybe have something roasting out on the fire.
we don't do much in the way of entertaining.
Usually it's,
one other couple come over for a dinner.
Let's see, what did we have the last time we had guests over.
we had turkey loaf.
Which, kind of taco turkey loaf.
It was good.
scalloped potatoes.
mashed potatoes.
Mashed potatoes with, cheese melted over the top of them.
A couple things like that.
It was pretty good (( little )) dinner.
sounds good. *
usually it's k ,
This isn't a good topic for me right now.
I'm on a diet .
don't you hate that?
few pounds to lose myself.
That's okay.
I've been fighting my weight since I was about ten years old.
I have, too.
I was real skinny till I was ten.
I left the fourth grade weighing about a hundred pounds and started the seventh grade, grade at two,
I guess we're ready to talk.
How you doing, Howard?
This is subject that I'm not real well versed on,
let's talk about air pollution.
What do you think causes air pollution in Dallas?
where are you from?
Maybe you're not in Dallas.
I'm from the,
I'm from Dallas.
I'm in Richardson.
What do you think as far as air pollution in the Dallas area?
I have some small experience in this area.
The brown haze that you see if you look down Central towards downtown
a lot of that is, tied up with the oxides or nitrogen although some of the kind of bluish gray stuff we see sometimes is tied up with particulates.
one of the major problems that Dallas has is oxides and nitrogen.
That's because of all the equipment that's being operated. But at the same time, because burn a lot of coal and solid materials we,
don't get a lot of particulates.
Now particulates would come from trash burning or incineration or something like that here in Dallas.
power plants since,
many of our local power plants, are natural gas most of the time, the things that come off of those plants are carbon dioxide, and N O X.
There's no particulates in natural gas, of course.
we pick up a little bit of sulphur off some of these products.
We're burning fuel oil and a few other things,
gasoline, of course, now the lead's out, at least theoretically, I guess you could say we're picking up some sulphur because a lot of the fuels does have sulphur.
That's why we get that rotten egg smell sometime off the catalytic converter
the sulphur, yes.
that's, course hydrogen sulfide, which is when you burn gasoline, you also produce some water vapor
and that goes back in with your sulphur
under the right condition you get H two S.
well versed on the subject, I tell you.
I don't know.
This is not one of my better ones.
I notice it the most just, in driving around Dallas with all highway equipment that's working on the
on, six thirty five and seventy five, just the cars in general.
That's where I see most of it.
Ro ,
Ron a lot of this is caused by the fact that cars sitting in traffic tend to run rich because the way the pollution is.
when they run rich spit out a lot of hydrocarbons,
that's another part of the problem.
The gas is not being burned completely.
hopefully, if we ever get our road system fixed up, this will get a lot better.
I don't know, I've lived here since seventy four, Howard,
they been working on the highways around here since I've been here,
they'll be working on them long after my wife and I are gone.
I guess, not trying to top you, but I grew up in Dallas county and I can remember when they built the north part of North Central which was built after the south part of
Right .
I can remember coming over the hill down there long about, I don't know, little bit north of Mockingbird on up over those hills
I said I wonder if they'll ever need this road.
Course, it was designed for most of us to go about forty five miles an hour because the short on ramps and off ramps,
seems like, those ramps might kill us yet.
hopefully the new ones will be a lot better.
I understand.
I sure hope so, I tell you.
you get out on the, interstate highways versus,
I travel quite a bit
traveling from, Dallas to Austin to San Antonio it's the same thing as far as the pollution created by the automobiles stalled traffic and the busy highways, you're at your best
I guess when you're out on the interstate, heading north or south and you're just cruising right along and there's no build up of cars
Ron, have you noticed when you're driving south on thirty five, I guess towards Waxahachie, Hillsborough on down to Austin,
you hit a point down there about, I think where they call Bear Creek exit
on just this side of the county line .
Right along in there somewhere, suddenly the air feels cleaner.
Have you noticed that?
I tell you what, don't think I really have,
I'm going that way Tuesday
I'm going to make it a point to.
sometimes it depends on which way the winds blowing
I also travel a little bit
I don't know, it just seems like there's a certain point down there where you can breathe easier.
It may be all in my mind.
I know.
I know going to,
I detest going to Houston because it's such a,
Mike, I'm calling from Dallas, from Richardson.
okay, great.
I'm in Addison here.
our subject is on boating and sailing
quite honestly, with the exception of being involved in a part ownership of a little bass boat, I have never really got into sailing or boating.
I do, quite a bit of sailing.
I own a sailboat that I
do you, great.
keep parked up on the scout lot of my scout troop ,
we take it out
we do some teaching of sailing with the scouts,
that's neat.
I haven't really been taking it out,
recreationally too much lately .
It's just
I don't have a trailer hitch on my car anymore
it's hard for me to get it somewhere
I've seen some nice, nice sailboats.
The guy that used to live next to us in Richardson before we moved twelve years ago, or whatever, he had a sailboat, used to park it right in the, driveway
it seemed,
I think it held probably,
it must have slept four people anyway.
this one is not that big.
It's a day sailer.
It does have a little kind of cabin thing that you can store things in
you couldn't really sleep in there unless you sort of stuck your body out the hole,
back into the main part of the sailboat.
I understand.
they can be black holes to throw money into .
I tell you,
Boats are kind of expensive to maintain.
they are,
we have a swimming pool at our house
I think of all the time, now that my kids are gone and away and married and going to college or whatever, that I put in there, I just could not imagine a boat because I know it's a lot of maintenance.
Especially a bigger one.
The bigger
they are, if you get a big cabin cruiser or
You bet.
or a big ski boat,
power boat, then there's always, stuff to go wrong with it.
A sailboat at least doesn't have an engine to mess up,
you still have to
worry with the hull and the condition of the sails and spars and rigging, everything that's in it.
It takes a, a pretty good amount of maintenance to keep one up
You bet.
I know, my wife and I were first married here
aunt and uncle,
un ,
aunt and uncle up in New York, they kept a boat on Jamaica Bay
we used to go out with them and back then they had bought an older Chris Craft
we were involved every weekend in just,
as we visited, we were involved every weekend in just helping them redo this and refinish that.
We just worked all the time.
their boat slept about four people plus had a little kitchen.
It was sort of neat.
I think that was the last time we were really involved,
that was twenty years ago, or twenty five
years ago.
it's a lot of fun, I think
It is a lot of fun.
just from the standpoint of getting away from the dodge here,
when you work hard and you're under pressure and everything all week long, a boat can be a lot of relaxation, especially with a group of friends and
You bet.
cook out or camp out or whatever, or a cabin or something, depending on how much you like to rough it.
it's, ,
I visited my cousin a couple of years ago, my wife and I
our daughter and he had a place on Lake of the Ozarks
he had a boat
I never seen so many boats in all my life.
People actually park their car when they get to their place they're staying, townhouse or condominium, whatever they own
Use the boat
go boat.
for transportation.
they go,
if they want to go to the lounge to have a cocktail, they use the boat.
They just go across the boat and tie it up and go in, huh
that was sort of neat.
that's true, that's exactly how they do it.
They go to dinner that way, go to all the restaurants
that was sort of a neat setup.
I enjoyed that.
We spent a week with them.
I enjoyed that.
I'm envious,
That would be fun.
I'm envious of people that have the big boats
I've just never ,
I've never moved up to a really big class of sailboat.
once I get my son into and through with college, he's going to be starting, Rice next year
he's going off,
once I get to that stage where I'm not paying for something else
You bet.
and, I don't have to worry about a lot of other scheduling things, where I've actually got the time to go out and enjoy it, I might do something differently.
I might just donate my little one to the scout troop and let them,
keep it and maybe consider getting better one for me.
you think you'd really enjoy it?
I think I would.
the sailing part of it I like because it's so quiet.
if you get a big enough one, then you've got a little motor on it also, where if it's light wind, you can still putt around a little bit and have fun.
the wind dies, you're not stuck in the,
middle of the lake.
with my little one, I've been out there many times
that's great.
on a calm summer day,
where all of a sudden the wind stops
you're just stranded out there trying to pick up what little gusts you can to work your way back in
I know.
that gets hot wearisome,
doing that.
a big enough boat to have the little auxiliary motor on there, at least you can kind of drop the sails and
putt putt.
putt on back in .
that's neat.
it's fun.
Where do you work?
Who are you with?
I own an insurance agency, a managing general, a wholesaler of insurance,
out in Addison
I'm a scout leader, though,
out with,
you have a son?
I have an older son,
He doesn't have any children yet though.
he's thirty seven
I don't know if he's ever going to have any or not,
I do have some neighbor kids, lots of little neighbor kids.
I go out and, I play ball with them.
it's, because like this one that lives right next door, her mother does some work at home
on computers
it just seems like she doesn't have any time for her. Which is kind of sad,
the kids are kind of hungry for someone to play with them.
I will go out and play catch with them or let the dogs outside
they will roll around on the ground and play with the dogs
I do think that the parents should have, a little bit more time to spend with their kids.
I would think so.
When you,
your son was at home did you, working?
Did you work
were you able to stay at home with him?
when my son was at home, did work
he went to a baby sitter that this lady had about five other kids that she baby sat,
we always had our days off together
we went camping on vacations.
we had a lot of time together that way
when my mom,
when I was growing up my mom worked too,
she worked nights
and, as a nurse
she was always home for us
I always, really appreciated that. Having her there came home from school and when I worked,
now when I look back at it, it must have been a really difficult thing that she did
for us.
I am sure it was,
I don't know what the families are going to come to now days because there just doesn't seem like they do have time for their kids.
of them, the father and mother both work,
it's really rough.
I have one neighbor the father is a fireman
he works four days on
it seems like he is suppose to come home for three or four days,
he can't make enough as a fireman to support his family,
he's got a second job.
not home very often.
the kids I know miss that.
They really do.
You know.
a family without a father, a really hard thing.
I don't know,
suppose they are trying to get through to them that daddy is not home because, he is out working trying to make some money for, we can buy you this bike and that toy and so forth,
Kids, I think would much rather have dad there than the toy anyway.
I am sure they would
are you planning on, having any children
we are,
we just got married December,
we are going to wait a year.
that's good.
we will try.
That's what my daughter in law told me. That they were going to have kids probably after two years of marriage.
they will be married nine years ,
this year.
I don't know.
She's a nurse,
she has brothers and sisters that has got lots of little kids,
maybe they just decided that, if they wanted to have kids around the house they would just call one of their sisters or brothers up and tell them to send the kids over for the night.
that's a possibility.
You know.
We really want to have a family.
We feel like couple you are not giving enough of yourself
be sharing your family.
And giving your values, making something better of the world by raising up good kids
and letting them know they're loved and stuff.
an edge,
we feel the first year needs to be devoted to, making the family, the couple strong
and secure in their love for each other.
then, a family definitely a high priority.
do you plan on staying home after you have your children
work or what?
am in, I am in a different situation.
I am a missionary
I am home on furlough.
It called,
I have worked for four years in Africa
I come home for a year.
we go back for four years.
my husband and I will do the same job
we will be living Africa
we will be working together.
share the job of raising the family.
as a mother I will have certain responsibilities that he might not necessarily have
still we will share that job.
we have,
then we have decisions that we have to make that are hard about schooling, like do you want to home school your kids on a computer program
that kind of thing
do you send them away to boarding school
if you do that when do you do it
that's a,
Do you play?
I, consider myself a hacker.
How about you?
yeah? *
I'm into it.
I'm not as good as I'd like to be
it's a,
Is anybody?
I don't think so.
I'd started playing when I was in elementary school actually.
We lived
really close to a par three golf course.
I'd go up there with friends after school a couple of times every week
years, I don't know, after elementary school, all through junior high and stuff, I didn't play cause I think I just got so frustrated when I was little my body wasn't,
physically developed and all that kind of stuff
I'd started picking it up again a couple of years back
I've really been enjoying it.
that's kind of the way I did it too
played, just a tiny bit when I was real young
I got on to a team in high school but wasn't very good still.
and then quit for awhile
recently I picked it up, like you say, about a couple of years ago
I've been playing, off and on when I can.
Up in Minneapolis it's not too easy to play in the winter of course
I actually live in Florida
I'll be going back down there in May and hopefully be picking it up a little more regularly.
Th ,
the one factor that really bothers me is the expense of playing golf.
I was going to say .
it's a great game
to play a really nice course, you've got to have a really big wallet ,
true, all too many times.
Fortunately, down where I live in Florida, there's some golf courses that are pretty reasonable if you know where to look.
one of them is the University of Florida golf course
which is open to the public
that's good.
I, attend the Indiana University
it's the same way here.
They have a really nice championship style course that
is fairly reasonable to play on.
Can you get student discount type of thing
a little bit but not a whole lot.
you'd think you would
you don't
what are green fees run there?
they range anywhere from about five bucks for your basic city type course up to fifty, sixty dollars for a really, really nice course.
that's about the same I guess as it is in Florida.
My dad is a member of a golf club over in my home town
I can play for free there
it's a pretty nice course.
that's super.
I guess (( )) , it's free for me .
Somebody's paying
not me.
that's the way to do it though.
That's the way to get in some good practice without having to pay for it all the time .
As far as watching golf, I can watch it on T V
it's kind of boring.
It's nice to see those (( )) , guys.
They have such good style that,
pretty fun to watch.
They need to get a new photography method.
once the guy hits the ball and they got to try to follow the ball
a little difficult.
I mean, it, a generally okay job
like you said, kind of boring
What I really,
I, had a chance,
they had the P G A tournament up in Indianapolis last year
I was able to go and see one of the rounds of that
that was really fun.
you knew it
I bet that would be (( )) .
I never really thought it would be that much fun to go to a big golf tournament and watch
man, something else just to follow those guys around and actually watch them play.
I've never been to a tournament.
looking at it on T V, you're thinking, man, what a boring thing,
wild though.
I'll have to see if I can't get a chance
(( You got ))
to go,
a lot more exciting than actually watching it on T V.
if you pick a group of golfers and follow them around, it's just, watching them the whole time instead of like on T V, you get to see them make a tee shot
they go off to some other hole
they come back when they're putting,
it's really something else.
I can imagine.
(( )) What do you do for a living?
I'm a student right now.
you are?
At, Indiana University.
All right, great.
What are you going into?
I don't really know.
I'm a math computer science major right now.
Definitely not golf, right ?
No .
I wi ,
it'd be nice to be a pro golfer.
it seems like would be an okay life just to hang out
If you're good, you can really rake in the bucks.
Wh ,
what was
what was that movie that they had out?
Th ,
there was a movie about a professional golfer
can't remember.
It was on network T V a couple of times.
it seems like, you go to work every weekend. Play, maybe, one, two tournaments a month. You come in about tenth, you'd still
That's right. (( )) .
be doing pretty well.
that's a good thing.
I guess when I get back, I'm going to school in Florida
fortunately, I've been able play some golf on a student budget which is
real helpful,
You hear about Japan.
Right .
I guess, like two hundred fifty dollar minimum or three hundred dollar minimum just practice even (( )) .
those fees to join a club.
a million dollars or whatever is just
that is out of control.
you'd really want to , really be liking your golf.
I guess they have those, driving ranges that are actually stacked one on top of the other.
, I saw one of those on T V.
That is pretty wild.
(( )) . Yeah.
played, eighteen holes with some Japanese guys Gainesville, as a matter of fact.
it was really wild.
They were into it.
they kicked our butt all the way to,
Hi .
Do you work with a company that, gives drug testing ?
Sort of.
a student
I'm in the National Guard
they do a little bit of drug testing.
they do?
did they do that before you went in or what?
do it before you go in
occasionally they'll have random urinalysis.
they will, huh?
you can't be smoking marijuana the military anymore .
I worked,
I don't work right now because my company I worked for, P I E, went bankrupt
they was getting a program set up, that for all new hires they was going drug, give them drug tests.
they didn't hire very many new hires because all the people that usually work there, just stayed there because they had been there for a long, long time.
I think they should do it.
believe they should too.
I don't think anybody needs anybody to be working for them that's on drugs
of any kind
I don't know whether I believe that they should just randomly do it.
I think they should kind of warn them, like, we're going to do that or maybe tell them before they do get hired,
that this is what is going to happen.
if you don't like it, why then, you'll have to go look for a job someplace else.
after you,
you have,
to do randomly otherwise people will cheat.
I suppose you are right there too,
personally I,
I know when I was doing my, basic training in A I T
there was guys who would fool around
when that urinalysis came around they would be all scared.
it does work, it is effective. *
The only problem is, if you have done drugs but you've stopped and, you do get caught, it is harsh.
I suppose they fire you and everything right then, huh?
what do they do with you guys if, that you guys get,
we get counseling
I think part of our pay is docked if we're
first time offenders.
I see.
I really don't,
I don't do any drugs
I don't know.
I don't either.
I wouldn't even think about it .
I think anybody that does them are dumb,
, really.
You're so stupid, (( God ))
you just watch it on T V and see how it just burns your brain completely up,
You don't,
wastes your future.
really dumb, huh.
. Let's see, what else was I going to say here.
what do you think about our, other government agencies testing?
Do you think our government agencies should test?
I think so.
I think they all should test really
it just seems like there is so much more of it going on anymore
that, I don't know what's wrong with the people,
I think that government should do something about stopping it completely.
About it coming into our country.
they just slap somebody's little hand,
don't do that again
I know,
(( They aren't )) .
they'll get out
they're right back at it again.
Right now too lucrative for the drug dealers
the risks are worth it for them.
other than that, why, I don't know.
Like I say, maybe one of these days I'll get a job because I am looking still for a part time job, since my company went bankrupt
I'll see what they do,
like I say, wouldn't care because don't, I don't even smoke
they can test me all I want.
I wonder (( )) if you take medicine if that would effect it.
tha ,
it is a problem.
Sometimes some medicines will give off false positive.
now that
that would be really unfair then, huh?
You know.
(( )) I believe you should have the testing
they should be, like, a positive, they should double check you and still give you the benefit of a doubt.
Find out if you have been taking some kind of medication and, if that would effect it and everything.
I guess that's about all we can talk about.
I think our five minutes is about up anyhow.
it was nice talking to you Rose.
Okay, Lewis,
maybe I'll talk to you again.
Okay .
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
Bye .
we keep a monthly budget.
I just recently stopped working so I can be home with my kids
we keep a monthly budget
we try to stick to it .
I know.
really difficult here. All because there's always something breaking.
Car needs tires or something.
That's the kind of things that throw you off.
we do ours more monthly than long range.
my husband gets paid once a month
when he gets paid, I pay all the bills.
out of his check they take a savings
out of my check, they take savings
and retirement out of both checks.
as far as extra savings, we really don't have that much extra to save.
his check, once a month, pays all the bills.
My check, weekly, buys groceries and gas and
how nice.
that kind of thing
it works out real well that way.
We don't run into a lot of problems
budgets are horrible.
I know.
We do,
my husband gets paid twice a week
we pay all of the little bills, one
paycheck and then the mortgage and the electric bill, those big bills the second
second pay
again, he does have a savings that comes out, for Christmas and stuff, that kind of thing.
When the car insurance is due and you call the credit union and tell them, send me some money .
that kind of thing.
(( )) would be nice if we didn't have to touch the money he has taken out and put in savings
we do.
it's nice that it's there,
I'm just glad that it is there for
car insurance, medical bills, whatever (( happens )) .
It's nice that it's there.
I know.
it's just really is difficult.
neither one of us has had a raise in a couple of years.
of course, the cost of living keeps going up so much.
Groceries are outrageous
I keep saying my check does less and less
That's kind of how I felt when I was working because it seemed like we spent more.
We bought more things
it seemed like we spent more.
Then a lot of it was going to, daycare and that kind of thing.
it just seems like with me staying home, we had that big cut
we save more .
I don't know how
I don't know why
it seems like we do.
know that since I do work, I buy a lot of quicker cuts of meat and,
the frozen things for the microwave and things like that.
you kind of try and buy bigger quantities.
I'll stop by the deli and pick up, chicken or whatever. Where if I did not work, I'm sure that the grocery bill could be managed better.
That's how I felt too.
It just,
you could take a little longer. And
just watch a little bit more I guess.
y ,
I guess that's kind of like the way we do.
don't, I don't know how it comes out.
It just seems like we save a little bit more whereas,
where I was working,
I'm sure you do.
have to pay child care during the winter.
My son's old enough that he likes to come home
from school.
in the summer he's still young enough that I cannot leave him by himself.
So in the summer I have that extra
ours is seventy dollars a week plus all activities
that's usually movies one day, skating one day .
Swimming one day .
It adds up.
you usually end up paying close to eighty dollars a week
that's a lot of money.
it is .
It is,
if they're going to be in daycare then they need to have some activities other than just being there.
Ho ,
do you have two children?
I have two.
One is four and a half
the other one's two and a half,
they're expensive too. just the
Yes .
outgrowing of their clothes
I'm sure the budget,
I just came back to find jeans for the little one
it does add up.
medical bill.
Although the insurance we had was good, when Thomas was younger. A lot of the stuff had to be paid up front
you were reimbursed.
it was nice when you'd get a couple of hundred dollar check from the,
in the meantime you had to put out the money first.
that's hard.
it is.
I'm enjoying my stay home for the little time that I can .
I would too.
For the,
advise anyone that could possibly do it
I know it's not forever
that's what's so sad
you probably wouldn't want to do it forever.
I don't know though .
we just got our income tax return
I'm perfectly happy.
What about you ?
let's see.
I haven't got mine yet because my parents are getting all that stuff home
in the Bay area.
I'm not sure how much I'm getting back
I'm pretty sure I should get back a little bit since (( )) student,
It's not too much.
Not too bad though .
as far as writing checks out and paying taxes, I think it's pretty high.
I, I'm,
guess it's where we have to be, we have to keep raising them to keep some of the things we have and .
one of those necessities of life that we all have to, (( )) , pay taxes although it is kind of a pain sometimes though.
It's just scary though about,
How high are the taxes going to be when my children are my age?
that's scary too.
it's not anything like the way it was when I was young and small and a child.
a scary part too, that you have to think about.
as time goes on, things get more expensive
because we were (( )) increasingly complex society that
day by day expensive as well as more complex.
taxes are one of the ways to help pay for a lot of the things that are needed in this society.
everything medicare social security feeding the h , feeding the homeless, to maintaining prisons, to maintaining polices or fire departments and things like that.
now there's more and more things that need attending to and that sort of thing.
becoming a larger responsibility
someone has to pay for it
that's us.
you find out about all these things about is your money going to where you want it to go
There's going to a special this week.
can't, I can't if it's TWENTY TWENTY or one of those things where,
I think it's one of the local news.
I think they're having a documentary. Something about that.
About their trying to catch some people that , not spending your tax monies right and fraud and that kind of thing,
that's kind of scary too .
that would be interesting to see .
I wanted to see that program.
today it's the (( )) amount of taxes that, we're paying for.
you'd think that we're (( still in )) , that
deficit state that *
we're still not able to pay off things just because
I know
the budget's not big enough as it is.
makes you wonder when there's, countries out there that have, tax rates of close to fifty percent or higher.
it's like fifty percent of everything you make is already gone before you even get it.
kind of a scary thought.
I hope it doesn't come down to that.
on the other hand, while those countries that have high taxes, also have things like, socialized medicine, things like that too, which are nice fringe benefits of it.
the access to medical facilities as well as the doctors. That sort of thing.
it's good
the price they pay .
it can be argued one way or another whether economically it's actually good for the country or good for any given country to have that because those countries tend to have a much slower cash flow
and don't (( generate )) large amount of revenue because there's so little, currency flow through out the economic system .
you sure do know .
just keeping up with the times, that's all.
, yeah.
it turns out, it's (( interests )) , I kind of like to keep up on.
it's nice to know that when I do start working that, I like to know where my tax dollars are going too.
(( )) work hard to get,
I like to know where it's going to.
That's true.
What do you think about these items that are going to be, taxed even more. Like, tobacco and that kind of thing .
I think way it's good, in a way it's not.
I think in general it's probably good.
a lot of things like tobacco and alcohol and things like that in the past, have been not taxed because there's been such a large lobby against them, against
the taxes for them. Sponsored by the alcohol and tobacco companies.
things like tobacco a proven health hazard to smokers
as well as nonsmokers .
as far as the safety thing, San Luis Obispo, for example, there's an ordnance which states that, there's no smoking in any public areas. *
if you walk into any restaurant or any hotel there's no smoking allowed anywhere.
really .
Okay .
I just currently quit my job
I really don't receive any benefits right now .
Right .
But my husband does
I think one of the, my,
first of all, always salary and se ,
the second thing is, because we have children,
it would be, health benefits and medical benefits
right now we have probably some excellent benefits right now.
We have with Aetna
I don't know if you're familiar with them
we're real happy with them.
I've had a variety of different jobs with various types, in the computer field.
I've seen a variety of types of benefits.
I've worked (( )) for awhile
they are, a really academic type of place.
I've worked with regular, industry type places. And then with others that are kind of half way between and stuff.
I've seen a wide range of both, nonsalary type benefits and other stuff, like health care that's either fully or partially paid
some have bonuses
others have had lots of vacation time but not much other types of benefits
I (( would ))
I'd say health care is way up there, especially anybody with kids.
that's one of the big things that we always look at, think about changing jobs is, what kind of health care they have
does the company pay for it. all or partially
how does that work.
also, vacation time too big one for me.
and I guess support for other,
kinds of professional activities you have at, work.
cause I've
been at places which offer a lot of support and others that don't offer any and
sometimes that's coincided with a place that offers more vacation time though,
that's not so bad,
it's kind of a give and take kind of thing, I think.
I say that health care is probably definitely number one though.
(( )) want to just, all your salary can't even begin
to pay for what you can wind up losing,
in a major illness or something.
another good thing is with the health benefits when they give you more than two choices on who to go with.
that really helped us out a great deal.
my husband does get vacation
it's worked out really good for us too.
Flexible hours pretty important to me as well.
that makes a big difference.
My wife works part time.
she works, as a assistant manager in a fabric store.
she works a lot of evenings and weekends
two days a week, I, manage to get home early enough to meet the kids on the bus .
she goes in early those days and works noon til close.
we have (( )) .
that's great that you all can work that out.
That's really good.
being on a, rigid schedule there wouldn't be anyway to do that at all.
I think it's kind of neat to be able to spend the afternoons with the kids occasionally too.
usually, you go to work before they're awake or as they're getting, up for school
you get home
it's already dark unless it's summer time,
even in summer time, sometimes you get home so late that you can't do anything with them.
especially in the winter. you get up in the dark and come home in the dark
a vampire (( sometimes )) .
It's the same with my husband cause he's got pretty flexible hours as long as he puts in the hours he needs to do (( )) .
Worked out really well for us too.
is there anything else that you look for
a lot of (( )) I guess is.
You've hit pretty,
you've put a lot of the main points in.
I think some of, is how the,
I guess it's not really a direct benefit but how your, performance is rated and stuff like that at work.
I've been,
especially in large corporations. You can really, wind up having, real problems I've found out.
I've worked for a few, several thousand plus, type companies.
if you're doing like professional work. Where it's kind of (( ethereal )) as to what you're doing
If you're,
I work with, computer systems a lot.
it's kind of hard to say,
If you're, a brick layer, somebody can look and see, you laid, fifteen thousand bricks today
they were all straight
your building didn't fall down, .
you did a great job.
if you build computer systems, what does that computer program really do, Or, especially if you write papers,
Or do design studies or something.
It's real hard to rate something like that.
It's like get a painter, or something, a artist.
It's like (( )) how do you really rate, Michelangelo, .
How would you tell if he was, really good or so so or whatever .
that does make a person want to stay ,
an interesting topic.
The, type of cars that I would be most interested in if I was going to buy another car now would probably be something like a, Mazda Miata.
I'm very much fan of sports cars.
you and my husband would have a whole lot in common .
though, in som ,
if I h ,
I have av ,
I've avoided buying a new car for quite some time.
I'd rather put my money into,
restoring my old cars.
I have a old Triumph T R Six.
if I was to buy one, probably something like a Miata.
It's certainly,
i ,
I wouldn't have to worry about it breaking down all the time .
What's the,
how old is your car?
nineteen C R X.
which is, it's,
it still works fine .
it's kind of annoying cause I've got no reason to replace it .
what do the Miatas run?
those are,
they're about, thirteen to fourteen thousand dollars and, a bit more if you add some some options and so on
that's not too bad.
that's a pretty good price
they're, they're so nice to drive.
I've never driven one.
it's nice.
I've been down to a dealer and driven them.
I've also driven one at something Mazda put on where, they went to, autocross events across the country. which is where in a parking lot or something like that with a bunch of, cones to see who can get through the fastest.
about a minute or so.
And, very twisty stuff.
it handles so nicely.
you've done this?
Oh .
It was just,
it's just so smooth
Nice car.
What are you interested in?
Whatever my husband buys .
don't get involved in, car decisions?
not too much.
just got rid of a full conversion van that wasn't me.
That was my husband.
He wanted a van
he wanted to drive that van and travel and wanted everything in there. T V, the whole bit.
I never drove it
it just, wasn't me,
I can understand.
would *
you want, if you had to decide, what would you want?
I'd want a minivan .
Okay, *
They're nice.
I'm with the kids all the time.
perfect for that.
It's not,
small enough that it's easy to drive.
You pick up
Holds a lot.
I pick up my little one from preschool
the whole parking lot's full of minivans.
drive a little Subaru.
I love that.
we were going to trade that in for the van
I just wanted to hold on to it cause I just really enjoy that.
that's really all I needed was for something just to go here and there and back.
Minivans are nice.
I have a friend who has a minivan.
I've driven it a few times
it's nice,
it's nice.
Of course, has always had cars like that. in that, my father's always had a V W bus every since,
really .
about nineteen sixty or so.
used it,
he often has to transport plants or, things
like that cause goes to orchid shows fills the car with plants. And so on
(( )) .
It's amazing what a minivan can do.
We went camping this past weekend with some friends that had a minivan.
And pulled little trailer behind.
The pop up trailer?
it's really amazing how much a minivan can do.
they're not that expensive.
they're not.
They're probably (( )) .
Mainly because everyone makes them, .
You can take your choice of how expensive you want it to be.
do a lot of, driving.
We do a lot of traveling.
By car.
that's the only time conversion van came in handy.
it really didn't cause kids are still little.
that was the only time we really needed it.
Other than that, it got terrible mileage
. Yeah.
Minivans pretty well.
twenty five miles per gallon or more.
Some of them probably even do thirty.
some other cars I'd like
I would never be willing to send quite that much money for,
I'll drool over them.
mandatory service. I don't think it's a good idea,
we'd have to change the constitution allow, involuntary servitude, in service to the government.
I'm not sure that we could,
do that in such a way that we could avoid winding up a slave state.
I like the,
In what way are you talking about.
I like the idea of support.
they might be able to, say that anyone who does that, gets certain benefits that would not be available to someone who didn't do it.
to use force, essentially says that there's a title to your body and that title belongs to the government.
(( )) .
you are not a free American
The idea itself of service is good
when someone is out of high school and not sure about college or out of college and not ready to go into a career and they're not committed to huge amounts of debt, that's the best time to be able to do work that doesn't pay very well.
I also thought that, that would interfere college work.
Unless it were tied
they didn't,
if someone were studying something, (( )) take something obscure. Somebody was studying economics, the State Department could offer to send them to the Soviet Union for two years to teach them how to run their country.
That's true. *
As an extreme example, right?
Yeah *
in reality, I think what you would wind up with is a political football where they would see all these body counts that they can use for their own will
I just don't think it would work.
When do they assume this is going to be proposed or mandatory?
year are they looking at?
they're not.
It's been suggested.
it's sort of a topic of debate.
Every time it comes up it gets voted down.
The people who are promilitary oppose because they don't want people to have the right to opt out of the military into something else.
the people who are proconstitution oppose it on the grounds that the government shouldn't even have the right to enforce you to join the military unless
the United States is actually under attack .
Right .
mostly, it's just kind of one of those things that goes away.
They've got a noisy line.
I thought that was your line .
it's somewhere between here and there.
what age group they looking at?
The draft age.
that seems,
normally that would interfere with college, I would think.
Wait a,
Let me see if I can get on a cleaner line.
If it's my line,
I moved.
Maybe part of it.
it is my line.
I was on a radio phone.
All right.
That's better .
now their,
figure that they can draft you at eighteen.
They usually do draft you at nineteen.
that's the,
age they're looking at.
of course, this one the women would be equally grabbed
they're almost on the verge of saying that if you're going to draft men, you're going to have to draft women.
you're going to have to put them in front of the guns just the same.
if you're near that age or you know somebody who is
be aware of that.
. that's kind of scary .
I'm not near that age .
I'm way over it
do have children to think about,
you don't want them sent off to the Middle East to
That's kind of scary.
help defend Bush from Saddam after Bush gets done arming him.
we only find out about that a year after the fact.
it's another thing.
When in doubt, don't trust the government at all .
It's really reached
that point.
you're in Perot country.
I'm really thinking that this guy might be good for us.
I do too .
I've been, I ,
it seemed dangerous.
I thought is the guy a closet fascist?
I find out that he helped rid the United States of the gablers.
helped out in a lot of ways.
from Dallas.
he's in the Dallas area.
he's very well known around here.
I'm in the computer biz too
I know he's well known in the industry.
have high hopes for him.
I think that , if he could get people interested and encouraged and to believe that the government was actually for us, then I'm for him.
I, I.
in the Democratic primary, I'm going to vote for Brown just because I kind of like Brown and his attitude.
it really comes down in the fall, I think I know where it's going to go.
think he's got a very good chance.
there's a lot of people here pulling for him.
I don't know .
We'll just see.
th ,
did work in the, computer business, is that what you said?
I'm an end user.
I teach people how to use MacIntoshes and how to buy equipment and desktop publishing magazine production and things related to that.
my husband works for, Texas Instruments.
that's how we found out about the Switchboard.
that's their project too, isn't it?
I found about it on the network.
(( )) .
Okay .
Okay Carol.
air quality.
Is it,
I know in here, downtown Dallas, drive by and see it.
then again I originally was from California
there is a big difference between Texas and California.
they'd have their smog alerts and where you'd have to stay indoors for so many hours with an air conditioner.
of course, they don't have that here in Texas
there's ...
You mean they don't have smog alerts?
not in Dallas, that is.
I spent a summer in Tyler so I know, just east of Dallas there.
We're going there tomorrow.
really .
. We're
packing and getting ready to go (( to )) .
I'm a California born person.
I was born in L A
I know what you're talking about.
In L A, it's pretty bad.
you do then.
the worst city world is actually, Mexico City.
Is it really?
I would not imagine that.
The worst one for smog is Mexico City.
The most polluted city in the world .
You learn
(( )) .
something every day.
I know that looking at, better running automobiles.
I've seen that.
some things they do, one of them is they're using corn in fuel.
You ever heard of that?
No .
that's big up here because they grow a lot of corn .
that's one thing that they do.
At that, it's pretty easy to do.
unfortunately, it still contributes to global warming cause, you have to, wipe out forests to grow corn and things like that.
that's true.
It doesn't make sense.
one of the most, productive crop in the world
is corn.
of course, I doubt if there's any,
you can buy regular anymore.
You buy unleaded.
Drive cars with catalytic converters,
and all that.
It's interesting.
looking at,
there's some work being done on, automobiles that are electrical powered .
they're looking at where you have a battery operated car basically,
it has engine in the back
that charges it.
the engine kicks on when the batteries need power
it turns off.
Interesting thing about about battery powered cars is when you're at a stop light, you're not using energy .
Huh .
That is good.
Unlike a car where it's running.
A electric car it's on demand.
it's either on or off.
You don't have to shift .
cars become very simple all
of a sudden too.
Very interesting.
That would be nice.
I think I saw that on T V one time.
maybe it was C N N where they were demonstrating that.
Or something similar to that.
a race in Australia with solar powered cars.
Ford and General Motors and all those compete.
w ,
w ,
I think that was a setback.
That they,
I don't know,
they went, I don't know, how many miles an hour.
I think like twen ,
was that something *
maybe it was. *
I don't know.
G M, Chrysler announced that they're going to, they're,
they actually have an electric minivan.
Huh? *
Huh. *
it costs, fifty thousand dollars right now.
very expensive too. (( )) .
To operate, yeah.
people are buying them.
You know whose buying them? *
The power company.
for them.
(( Kind of )) interesting so see.
it doesn't make sense.
if they want people to convert,
They should make it worthwhile.
. It's top speed is something like eighty miles an hour.
a good, good
I'll tell you.
Sometimes pretty bad here.
Like today I think it was pretty bad.
I don't know if it's just, the allergies or what
some days it's very nice here downtown
other days it's just really bad,
I don't know.
kinds of things did you experience in L A when you were there?
can you remember?
Were you there at a?
I wasn't there too long ago.
I haven't been there probably ...
going over the hills, coming into the valley? .
You can see that horrible, horrible brown haze.
we were there when they had a ,
do you have a pet Randy?
currently we have a poodle.
A poodle, miniature or, full size?
it's, miniature.
I read somewhere that, the poodles is one of most intelligent dogs, around.
dispute that,
actually my wife's dog, became part owner six months ago when we got married,
it, definitely responds authority
I've had dogs in the past
to, respond real well,
it, it
picked up a lot of things, by, teaching by force, I guess is what I'd like to say.
only known the dog, how long did you say.
about a year I guess.
is it,
how old is the dog?
It just turned two, I believe.
it's still just a pup.
Pretty much,
I have a, a mutt, myself.
I call it a, (( Chowperd )) .
It's, part Chow and part Shepherd
as I understand it, both sides of the, were thoroughbreds.
she's a genuine (( Chowperd )) .
that sounds interesting.
She has color and the black of a Chow,
she has of the, Shepherd.
big then?
she weighs in at about fifty pounds,
she's a medium size.
she's big enough to be intimidating, *
Most definitely.
it is a female, by the way, *
right from day one, she was teaching me.
I wouldn't doubt it,
She's the most intelligent dog I've ever seen.
Course, I'm a little prejudiced, of course.
that's understandable,
the first time I brought her home, she was only, was it six weeks old.
I spread the newspapers out in the kitchen area.
next morning, she let me know in no uncertain terms that she wanted to use the bathroom.
on next night, I spread the newspaper in the bathroom
she used them there.
it wasn't too long until she, found out she could wait until I let her out in the morning.
since then, live alone,
I live in motor home,
by the way, I'm, an
such a pleasure to come home at night
you can see her smiling from ear to ear, she's so happy to see me.
I don't know if you get that kind of greeting or not.
I can honestly say we do, we, just recently put a security system in our house
now, in order accommodate the motion detectors we have to keep her, locked up in master bedroom during the day
she's got bedroom and the bathroom for free run during the day
we've always a nose and tongue pressed up against the window when we come walking up to the front door.
She's definitely ready to get out and run around.
my dog's an outdoor type, she does not like to be indoors. *
she'd rather outside on cold ground at night.
I do make her come in.
And I feed her indoors, that's to lure her in,
during the day I have her leash,
which is, on sort of a run.
I have thirty foot cable,
running from one stake to another,
attached to that is a, twelve foot leash,
she can cover quite an area.
Most definitely.
she's the best, burglar alarm going.
that's, definite security involved a dog like that.
it's the strangest thing, though, children, no matter how strange they are, or how new they might be can walk, right up to her,
adults, if they're strange to her, they look suspicious or something, she acts like she wants to chew their leg off.
I have not discovered yet where line is between children and adults.
that's interesting.
she is a great comfort to me.
I know our dog has had, some different reactions,
she's never really been around children
the child pretty straight forward, she's fine.
a child is a little intimidated, she'll jump around yip and bark quite a bit,
if the child gets scared, she's still trying to play, but she doesn't completely understand what's going on
we've had a little confusion with younger kids.
it's a matter of exposure really.
we, took her home to, my family's place in South Dakota,
she was the one that was intimidated then.
There was about seven kids ranging from about, three years to ten years running around the house all at one time,
come to visit Grandpa and Grandma
the dog felt out of place then because being fed, and everything else from all directions.
She really didn't know how to handle herself.
You mean she didn't appreciate all that attention.
She really did,
she just,
was alm , she was just inundated all the attention.
kind of, she kind of sat and (( )) it all in for a little while
she'd go get back in and try to play what not,
just new experience for her.
She's only been around one sometimes two people at the most
What's her name by the way?
do you call the dog?
it's, Mitzi.
Mine is Gin.
As in, martini.
it's Gin two.
when I was a teenager, in high school, I had Gin one,
then when I went out in the world, I couldn't take her with me.
I had, a similar, experience.
grew up on a farm
I always had, outdoor pets
the dog I had when I moved to Dallas about five years ago was a, Springer Spaniel, black Lab cross.
he was lovable type,
but, definitely not an apartment type animal
had to stay home.
what a shame.
it really was.
He, apparently had a tough time with it for a little while
got, he came to accept the fact that Mom and Dad were his company from then on,
Randy, we've just about used up our time here,
I must say it was interesting.
Most definitely.
I enjoyed talking about pets with you.
that's great.
Maybe we'll get together again in the future.
That sounds real good.
Take care now.
You too.
All right,
Amy, how are you doing today?
All right,
I think we know what we're going to speak about.
I tell you what, I'll start off.
How's that?
you go ahead.
I personally think to set a mark with the judicial system and we're talking about criminals,
criminal cases that they should bring back hangings on weekends,
In public places.
in public places.
There is one state that does that, by the way.
What is that?
I want to say Oklahoma,
I saw something the other night about it.
They don't do them real often.
Which is obviously the death penalty.
I think if we quit, building, these Taj Mahals with the color T V s and a year to keep an inmate in there on a life sentence, we should start hanging them and get it over with
let's just screwing up the system.
the sentences are so unbelievable.
I just saw on the news last night, that they said the average time a sentenced murderer, is in jail is two years before he's paroled, and a rapists is six months,
That's pathetic.
and a burglar is two months.
That's pathetic.
they just say there's either no room in the system, in the jails for them
it's just that, it seems like the automatic sentences, a judge has leeway, on what he's going to, sentence someone for between, two months and fifty years and, what's his whim to decide it should be two months.
This is true,
it's crazy.
the way the law reads, if they sentence you to life in prison, then he's available for parole.
If it's life and a day, then he's not eligible for parole.
let's quit B S ing with the system.
even if it's life, like you say, we end up spending sixty thousand dollars a year to keep some, joker in there for life.
We could spend that money, for children that are starving, or twelve million other things would be more useful than that.
to me if somebody has life, beyond a reasonable doubt be it.
A life for a life.
You know particularly for some of these really,
there are so many just major, major serial murders,
it's not just like one instance, or something, it's just, horrifying, some of the murders that go on.
The old Charles Manson case.
the guy
there's just everyday you hear on the news of another one like that.
just shouldn't be allowed live.
about the issue about sentencing by the judge.
judge presently has an opportunity to intervene, verdict
for example there's a hung jury here in Fort Worth, today, in eight to four
bam, bam the guy got off.
a veterinarian, and killed two, a father and a son, okay.
I heard about that on the news.
it kind of gets back to the second request,
we've been asked to look at, most criminal cases requiring an unanimous verdict.
In a situation like that, I'd say no,
let's just go like a regular vote.
Eight to four tells me that there were eight,
there's a certain of the people there, with said, hey,
they guys guilty.
Rather than have to retrial the thing and spend all the money for people to, go back to court and all the lawyers
it just winds up costing the taxpayers fortune to keep doing that.
the victims, the family of these people that have been murdered, they just have to have it dragged on for years and years before they ever get any resolution.
it's not next day they have, the, start the trial, it's X number of months and just prolongs the situation that much more.
I think not a split decision, go with the highest number
let's just get on with the program.
as far as the sentencing by the judge, I would have to vote against that since there is a jury, because that's what the juries are for is to make the decision.
what are your feelings?
if I,
I saw on one of the talk shows this woman judge, I believe from Florida,
she just has, really stiff penalties
I saw that the hands of a judge that really was conscientious and really, took the pains to give a sentence for what was deserved, have judge that would really make a good impact.
likewise, you could have the flip side, and have some judge that was paid off or, had a good old boy network
for whatever reasons, politics, just let all kinds of people through
would have a heck, or she would have a heck of a lot of power, if used wrongly.
at least the jury system does something to prevent that, or help it with it anyway.
I don't know if it prevents it,
seems like the jury system does have it's advantages.
heard on trials that sometimes they go through three hundred jurors before they hand pick these jurors that they think are going to be the ones that are going to be the most lenient,
I don't know how much they're getting just a jury of their peers, at that point, they're really getting a select group.
It's not just random people.
It almost should be the first twelve people that they, have on a list are the ones that are on the jury
that's it.
I get back to Price's comment when he, was found guilty he said he didn't have any blacks, from his neck of the woods.
give me a break,
He'd have to have his whole family up there for him to feel like he's got his peers or something,
in Dallas
I can't believe they can,
in a murder situations, they look for juries who don't know anything about the system, well or know anything about occurrence,
you'd have to be pretty dense,
in a cave not to know what's going on, or moving it to Lubbock,
or somewhere, possibly is not the answer.
they'd have to move it to Taiwan for people not to know about it practically.
This is true, so true.
this has been an interesting conversation.
this breaks up my afternoon from changing diapers and mopping floors,
what can I say.
you're at the house you're not at the plant.
I'm at home with two little preschoolers.
My husband works for T I.
that's good,
that's good.
I thought I heard a holler there in the background,
I wasn't sure.
I've got the dog and two kids waiting here,
I'm just locked up in the laundry room .
I'll let you get,
thanks a lot.
Bye bye.
I enjoyed it.
Ellen what kind of a car do you think you're going to buy? .
as a matter of fact, I was thinking about that the other day,
I really don't know the answer, ,
I would sort of like to, think about something in the way of, sort of a sporty car but luxury type sporty one.
But, something that still has a lots of amenities and, gadgets and things.
you do want a lot of that stuff?
some of those things.
They come in really handy .
What kind of, things are you going to consider,
you said something
what do you call them,
you said amenities,
that they have,
what about, their reputation of the company or the price.
of course, I guess, price is always the big consideration,
It is for me,
other people,
don't seem to have the same problem .
a big one in my book,
I have preferences some, makers over others,
I would sort of like to buy American,
I'm not so totally hung up on that, that I wouldn't buy something else,
how about you?
the last car (( we )) bought was American that reason,
(( have )) not been entirely happy with, several things about the car,
it doesn't seem like the quality is quite as high as I expected it to be.
several things, minor things sort of,
still they cost us money, that we didn't feel like we should have had to pay, on a car was that new,
we bought the car new
under two years we had to replace the clutch.
they just said, clutches are (( disposable )) ,
I said, since when?
Brake pads are (( disposable )) ,
we know that,
I never thought a clutch was disposable.
I wouldn't have thought so either.
kind of a shock .
guess there's a lot think about when you're trying to make that decision.
you spend on a car it seems like luxury cars,
they're called luxury cars even though they're much more expensive a Mercedes Benz,
they don't have the history of breaking down or things like that, that would go wrong would definitely not be considered disposable.
You would never think of having to replace the clutch in a Mercedes,
especially not after two years.
on the other hand, I guess, too, whenever you do have to have some major work done on one of those it costs a fortune.
I don't know.
I've, worked with a couple of people who have owned, various years,
even though they do a lot of the work themself just buying the parts and everything pretty expensive.
for them sort of a hobby, too,
to own them (( )) .
What kind of,
what brand of car are you thinking about buying
(( )) what things are you looking at?
I haven't gotten that far with it,
I've always sort of liked General Motors,
a little bit better than some of the others
I guess, I really don't know.
How come (( ))
I've been kind of,
I guess the commercials are getting to me, the Toyota commercials,
I know that a lot of people known that have had Toyotas have been just extremely happy with them, hardly had any problems at all.
I think that's,
I think they have a really good, quality.
My, daughter has owned two different ones,
we've had some work done on them
it's not too bad,
the reason,
one of the reasons we, bought the first one was because a friend of ours had a Toyota that he just really drove for years and years and years
he lived way out in the country
he put a lot of miles on it,
you knew it been through a whole lot,
yet, held up pretty doggone good,
I thought they would ,
They seem to be really durable.
I don't know,
not ready to buy a new car yet,
I don't know, the next time I'm going to try stay with buying something American or if I'm going to go for a little more, what I would consider to be a long term investment .
I guess, you always have to think about things like, your gas mileage and stuff like that,
you ...
it's easy to get gas mileage in this car,
it gets excellent gas mileage.
that's one of the big throwing cards for, some of the foreign ones .
we talked long enough .
I think so.
enjoyed it.
All righty,
thanks .
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
go ahead,
I'll let you start.
I was thinking about whether or not we should have people, be required to do public service for a year or two.
I was thinking that you needed to put some waivers in there for the handicapped and also for people that had to stay home and maybe be wage earners for their family,
they had somebody at home that was ill that they had to tend to.
you can't make it everybody.
then you need to make it sure that the rich people can't buy somebody off maybe send them in their places or get out of it some other way too.
it could be like the draft where, before they draft you, you get a physical anyway.
when they send you a draft notice and they give you a physical
if there's nothing physically wrong with you, then you're drafted.
It doesn't matter how rich you are.
That would be good.
we could maybe give physicals to the rest of the family members,
What did you say?
Give physicals to the rest of the family members
they all had to pass.
I thought it a good idea too, though would be to extend this and make people that are accepting public welfare have to do something along this line before they got any money.
that's true.
if they did this, maybe help them out in their college cost
maybe they could pay people for doing this, at least something,
they subsist.
that's true.
America's paying all this money to have other people give, aid to other countries,
they could be paying their own people and training their own people at the same time.
do, service overseas you end up learning something, usually really useful, plumbing, or farming, something like that,
you're really learning a skill .
you know all these old people, they would get out of this right.
All the ones that are already retired.
what we could do is take all the retired people that are going around in their big mobile homes and they could do public service all over the country.
What did you say?
I'm just teasing .
think, that's probably the idea,
I don't know whether the idea is to be within the country, or outside the country.
I thought it would be a good idea if maybe you took some of the kids and had them go over to other countries
children from their countries came over to ours too, a trade off.
that would be neat,
sort of like an exchange program.
other than that, I can't think of any other ideas.
that'd be sort of neat.
I like the idea of, being, a mandatory thing for welfare.
Course that's what,
that's sort of like what Truman had,
was it Roosevelt,
I can't remember,
with the big,
with W P A.
Getting people,
work program and make work jobs.
That was sort of public service in a way all the highways they started building.
we're still using those things too.
What did you say?
We're still using those things.
that's true a lot of them are still out there.
Like all these wonderful highways in West Virginia and no one knows why.
They built lodges before too, like at Caddo Lake.
Lake what?
Caddo Lake.
Caddo Lake.
It's between Texas and Louisiana,
it crosses into both of them.
I've never heard of it.
it's real pretty,
it's like a swamp.
Oh .
with all the Spanish moss on the trees,
real pretty, like a swamp,
I been,
I talked to someone else before that was Texan,
I guess what we're going to have.
This is, a T I experiment to see how talk,
Texans talk to other people.
I don't know,
where are you from?
that's neat,
I talked to somebody from Ohio the other night.
it is neat to get other people. Especially since you got other, ideas about react to things and stuff. Especially when it comes to, social services.
I'm glad they have a lot of, topics on social services, because, like this thing, this is a pretty good idea.
I didn't even know if they were thinking about it.
I wonder if they thought about it themselves or whether someone, somewhere is really thinking, that, it would be a good idea to have everybody spend some time in public service.
There is somebody
can't remember who it is
there's a really famous,
of dang,
I can't remember.
Politicians pushing it, or,
That proposed it,
I read something in PEOPLE about it.
or Mitch Snider.
Or Mitch Snider.
Mitch Snider, I don't know who Mitch Snider is.
that's a D C thing.
Mitch Snider is advocate for the homeless that, said it out here in Washington
he started movement for creative nonviolence.
he started that
was basically a, donate time and money to, help the homeless,
What have your other topics been?
Excus ,
the other topic was, like I said, something about politicians.
I can't remember exactly what it was.
It was real general statement .
I had one that I hated.
It was what meal would you cook for, special dinner .
Gee whiz ,
How far can you go with that one,
Another one, though, that was good was, what do you think about the social changes for the last ten, twenty and thirty years
what do you think has caused some of the social problems.
that would be neat.
I'd have to basically say my birth. *
That's probably the best one.
we had to talk about air pollution too.
What do you think is causing it
what should we do about it?
that would be sort of interesting because then you get people from of the state,
of course Pittsburgh, would say, find the better cheaper ways of burning coal,
Cleaner ways of burning coal
people in the South would say don't burn coal,
we don't have much coal.
we have a lot of coal .
In Virginia.
a dirty fuel, that's for sure.
how did you get into this program.
How did I get into it,
I'm an electrical engineer here in Virginia.
For T I.
I'm in a telecommunications company
they, sent it out in our bulk mail so that if any engineers wanted to participate,
does your company have something to do with T I.
not really,
no more than any other company,
we buy their parts just as much as anybody else.
real association with T I other than being in the same
sent out a letter to everybody they do business with saying, that if you're interested we're doing a study
do you know this is supposed to go on.
I don't know,
I don't.
I don't either.
it says just keep on until
they'll notify you.
At first I was thinking it was just a week because that's all it shows, on the schedule
then it seems like it might be longer than a week.
what do you think we're going to get?
What do you think,
What do you think we're going to get for this?
I don't know.
Do you know anybody that's ever done this?
T I seven (( )) thirty two or something.
I know T I gets prizes.
I didn't hear about that.
Probably for T I employees.
I was led to believe that if you weren't T I that you get money.
I'm not T I.
your not, *
you don't work for Texas Instruments.
Let's see, one of my friends had a roommate that worked for T I
she saw this on her computer
and thought it might be neat,
she ran off copies of the thing.
I just signed up for it.
that's a neat idea.
he's gotten a good mix.
I was saying because I've,
like I said, I heard some other people talking that they've talked to different people in different states and stuff.
That's good, especially since you call that one eight hundred number
probably knock T I profits margin way down.
it shouldn't be too good right now anyway, because they've been laying off so many people.
this is probably some government study program.
we're footing the bill on our taxes.
I enjoyed talking with you.
thanks a bunch,
we'll talk to you later,
I'm going to save my two year old from the pile of grapes she's diving into.
I'm going to try to (( )) clean up the house after my two children for about an hour see if we can walk around.
talk to you.
Bye bye.
All right.
Last thing I saw was, I think, SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY with Julia Roberts.
I hadn't seen that,
I've heard that it's real good.
My husband didn't like it that much.
I thought it was okay.
It was a little strange,
this woman supposedly is, being mentally abused by her husband,
he keeps her pretty much terrorized to stay in the house,
she figures out this way leave him secretly.
she fakes her death kind of thing
he tracks her down .
Oh .
end scenes kind of suspenseful, when she realizes he's in the house, after her,
kind of had the feeling along that,
why didn't she just tell him to straighten up.
why didn't she just tell hi ,
look bucko,
you don't get away with this nonsense .
Oh .
anyhow, what have you seen?
last week, as a matter of fact, my children was on Spring Break
we went to two movies.
We went to see AWAKENINGS
with Robin Williams.
we went to see KINDERGARTEN COP.
I really liked both of them.
I really did.
AWAKENING was kind of sad to me.
It really was,
be to anyone because, they really don't know that much about it.
this is where the people have been kind of W ,
I don't a better word to say than like asleep or in a coma,
for a long time.
the drugs let them come back.
the drugs didn't work for long,
they started having real bad side effects.
Oh .
this is about nineteen sixty four, or something like that,
there still hasn't been any, new development in prescribed drugs that can help it.
was a big breakthrough,
in time, side effects started showing.
how bad were the side effects?
They actually went back like they were,
Oh .
All it was,
they wasn't mild,
they was just bad side effects.
I really enjoyed it, though.
You know.
how about KINDERGARTEN COP?
. That's strictly for entertainment .
That was just ,
it was,
Arnold Schwarzenegger is getting to be, a bit of a variety actor,
At first he was just a big muscle man.
he's kind of branching out.
He sure is.
He is,
as a matter of fact, Sylvester Stallone, is that his name?
I really believe Schwarzenegger is really going to be a player more so than he is, because he really played the part good.
he could be this rough, tough guy and then, this substitute teacher.
It was really good.
there was a movie out,
it's been on cable,
I get cable,
there's this thing with, Danny De Vito called TWINS.
I've seen that.
I thought that was just great.
isn't it?
I even like of the original stuff,
I like THE TERMINATOR.
At first, it was kind of strange,
I still like watching him in THE TERMINATOR.
some of the other things.
TOTAL RECALL last year I thought was really good, last summer.
Guess it didn't last too long at the box office,
I thought it was pretty good.
I did too,
I really did.
I enjoy a lot of movies.
Now as far as, let's say, heavy violence, I can't handle .
I'm not into that,
I ju ,
like RAMBO and all that.
that's just something I just don't want to watch.
have some,
one person at work I know gets really into those goofy horror flicks
I just keep telling her, how can you do that?
I told her when she had little girl.
I said, now you better get out of the habit of watching those.
You shouldn't be watching them with your little girl,
she says her little girl's into it now.
my goodness.
these really gross things like,
THE NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET,
and, that kind of,
I don't go for that at all.
I guess I'm a little too scary for that.
I remember when I was real little, we all went to some kind of scary movie,
it was like this had a basement,
there was all these weird things going on in the basement,
I was scared to death of our house had a basement for years.
You know,
I got a lot of really weird ideas,
from that goofy movie.
they tell you that kids can, be impressed by all that stuff,
it's true.
It is,
it really is,
had a lot of things that
nobody told me that it was all fake.
I was just sitting there watching it,
watchi ,
going jeez .
I don't want to go home,
yes .
I think a lot of kids, get the same kind of fears, like there's somebody under the bed.
Where do we get that from?
I know,
I have two children.
I really try to watch what they watch,
I really do, because my youngest one, he watches something, you might as well just plan on staying up all night, because ,
He'll come in,
Mama, I think the ghost is in the house,
Mama, I hear it,
don't you?
How old are they?
They're eight and ten.
they're, (( ))
it's just a movie,
I try to say, it's just a movie,
Mama, I've seen it .
I remember, I was with a friend of mine, had, three kids,
the little boy must have been, maybe about ten.
we rented CHARLOTTE'S WEB
he just bawled at the end
and just she's not going to die.
we were trying to say, Kenny, it's okay,
he didn't want to listen to it.
He just was beside himself,
this is supposed to be a nice children's movie, CHARLOTTE'S WEB
He just couldn't stand it that Charlotte was going to die at the end.
oh .
Oh .
It's funny how your little minds work,
isn't it?
. She's so nice,
she can't die .
Oh .
it was jus ,
I guess that's why the actors and actresses make millions of dollars,
people like us, .
I've enjoyed talking to you.
You too.
maybe we'll run across each other again.
this is kind of neat.
I haven't ever initiated a call.
I've just been called, by the switchboard,
the first week, I think, a lot more people were doing it.
I normally get a call every other day.
Do you?
as far as,
we could not call in last week.
from where I'm at.
We couldn't call in.
They said it would be up Friday, March the fifteenth before it was prepared.
I missed several days, because I was getting quite a few calls.
How weird.
I don't know,
do have a variety of topics.
My first one was the toughest,
it was something like discuss pollution.
(( )) It was discuss air pollution,
causes of it and cures.
I was going, .
my husband, sometimes, he'll receive a call
he's at work,
know the topic I'll go ahead and accept it as mine,
the other day I got one about fishing
I thought, my.
I don't know a thing about fishing,
I'm not even going to try .
when they listened to that tape they would have really had a good time,
believe me.
I know it takes a fishing pole and some bait, and some water .
I'm really not for sure, though, if
I'll let you go,
we'll talk to you later.
All right.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
Here we go.
have you ever been involved in any trials?
I sure was.
Two years ago I spent some Fourth of July to Labor Day on a jury that was, a change of venue from Columbus, Ohio for aggravated, murder and kidnapping.
it was quite a session that my whole summer, of course,
Sounds like it.
five days a week,
it was an absolutely fascinating experience.
it sounds like it.
I haven't had any actual real life experience
my father in law's been involved in, several trials including, a couple murders. And, talking to other people who have been there
I don't have any real experience with trials
I do,
I took a little business law college
try to keep abreast of things.
m ,
I think that the, trial by jury a great idea at it's inception back two hundred years ago.
right now though so difficult because there's so few courts get anything really done as you know you spent, a whole summer on one trial,
it's just that I think they're just tieing up the, whole judicial process. *
there's a lot of things they could do to, make things easier and, like, the suggestion that, maybe a judge should be the one who decides on what the sentence should be rather than the jury.
I think that there are many cases where, the judges probably do make the decision rather than the jury.
Our situation was somewhat different, in view of the fact that, we were a landmark case,
it was the first time in the state of Ohio that, D N A testing was entered as evidence.
they were being,
the judge was being especially careful that everything was done correctly so there couldn't be mistrial of any kind.
interesting thing was the tremendous selection of jury process, that we experienced.
That took one full week, to get forty three people qualified to sit on the jury.
it was a matter of the selection of, twelve people after that.
it was fourteen because we had two alternates.
the judge was extremely concerned for our welfare, comfortable, and, things of that nature which made us feel good.
we were sequestered
the makeup of the jury, was truly a country.
There was one other person besides myself, we were the only ones that had ever been to college.
one was a former student of mine a few years before who was out of work.
two others were ones who had never finished high school and were out looking for jobs,
a couple of them were housewives who had never worked,
some are people who did work.
we had quite a cross section of black, white and women and men.
was interesting just to listen to the rationale, being proposed and the logic of some of the people,
it was also extremely difficult to stay awake sometimes because there was so many witnesses,
we were not allowed to take any notes of any kind.
I thought that that was a failing because, from the standpoint that it was difficult to try to remember everything,
yet the judge said, if you're taking notes you're missing something,
he was right,
there also.
I certainly,
I think it depends upon how the judge handles the case, and if the criminal chooses to have a I think he can, *
have that rather than trial by jury.
I agree.
would surprise me that,
when I was in Texas I had the, displeasure of getting a, traffic ticket.
I went to court
you can even get a trial by jury for a traffic ticket.
You're kidding.
I thought, my God talk about tieing up things *
and money.
that's extremely expensive.
the first thing you had to do when you came before the judge was waive your right to a jury trial.
I'm like (( God )) ,
this is ridiculous .
I do think
I do think the jury system works
also feel, as you said, that the original concept of the jury as it was originally setup, back, a hundred years ago was fine but that it needs to be more refined for today's standard of living and level of education so many people now,
by the same token we had, some people who had vacations planned
one man in particular had reservations made, plane tickets made, everything,
the judge called and had it all canceled so he could get his money back
he wasn't selected on the jury.
my God.
another young fellow had to meet with the judge and the prosecutor and the defense attorneys on three different occasions before he was finally excused from the jury because his wife was about to have twins.
to go through all of that (( )) in three days to get excused from that jury, to be with his wife on the birth of the twins.
some of it just seemed rather extreme.
think they can probably come up with some ways to insure that, people would get a fair trial,
and not have to go through this process.
some things are just so cut and dry.
level of evidence that they come up with now, when you start thinking about they've got video tape audio tapes
got, they've got ways to nail people ,
to the point where really shouldn't even be going to trial.
I guess (( he'd )) have to be careful with entrapment or some of those things,
I don't,
I assume you have seen on television recently, as probably the whole country has, the beating of the man in Los Angeles.
that was horrible.
Isn't that terrible?
That (( it )) ,
that certainly, cannot be said to be, something that happens everywhere,
the fact that it can happen, that it probably does happen in many places, horrendous
it's just a stroke of luck,
that someone was able to get it on tape and then, to listen to the tape recording, at the police station of the whole conversation afterwards.
I know.
I only heard portions of that
it's absolutely,
if you beat a dog like that, they'll put you,
in jail,
we get a few other case,
like (( up at )) the end of last year where one police officer, it was on a drug raid, was trying to a confession or information from a drug dealer and did so by placing iron on burned him.
They wound up paying him,
the officer, of course, was fired,
they paid the defendant, three hundred thousand dollars or something to drop the lawsuit,
last week someone shot and killed the former policeman.
(( as ))
some of those things, are absolutely horrendous
we do need
we just need more discipline country wide.
(( It would )) ,
then we'd need it on that,
I believe that too.
it's been very nice talking with you.
it's been nice talking with you.
good luck (( )) calls.
thank you,
you do the same.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
I was just looking around my house and thinking about the painting that I've done.
the last time that, we tackled it, I did the kitchen.
I had gone through a period of depression at one time and painted everything a dark,
it was called a sassafras,
it was kind of an orangish brown.
It was not real pretty.
the kitchen was one of the rooms that got hit with that color.
I see.
I tried to cover it with white,
it was quite feat getting that dark a color covered, and then just the hassles getting around the cabinets,
if I look underneath my cabinets, I'm not satisfied with the jobs did on it because there're splotches.
I'm glad it's done, because it's brighter.
that's for sure.
I just got married about six months ago,
we bought a house at the same time.
I'm sitting here in my forty year old house,
we're about halfway through the painting process .
the only,
I guess big discussion, just kind of what you were mentioning, has been the color.
We ended up with living and dining room are now, kind of light peach color with,
it's got all the old, original hardwood trim and stuff,
we've got the trim in an off white.
this is really the first, interior painting project that I've attacked.
been, it's been something else, to say the least.
had the same type of situation.
the walls were,
they weren't,
the color difference wasn't so bad,
there was semigloss underneath
we put a flat over the top,
everywhere you'd miss there'd be this little bright spot you could see .
It seems like you could see it through about three layers of paint.
Every time the sun would come up in the morning I'd see another spot and have to drag out the paint can.
we've learned.
we worked, we've worked our way back into the hallway,
we're in the middle of the bathroom now.
been quite an adventure.
thing that makes it, a little more difficult, we've got all hardwood floors,
learned to be a little more careful about covering up the floors first time we spent a lot of time on the floor with a and what not cleaning up.
what are you going to get it off with if you get it on and it's dried?
not too bad.
It, it,
the floors are finished with a polyurethane,
it's really not to bad to get off, *
we're just using latex,
it's not too bad to get it off once it's dried even.
it, comes off with a mild abrasive pad, like a scotch brite pad or something like that and water.
we got pretty lucky on that.
it's not scratching your floor,
not really.
because it's so thick.
that's pretty good.
We painted every room in this house, some of them two, three times.
We have two children.
they just,
they ruin, ,
it's just terrible what they do.
I have been coloring my hair,
I'm real haphazard when I do it.
I've got dye on my bathroom door.
I haven't figured out how to get that off.
I guess I'll have to take that door down and really get it good.
probably so.
we have a two story.
We did the outside of it one summer.
That was horrendous.
couldn't stand the back side going up that high on the ladder.
I could get up on the roof and do that.
I dread that the next time.
house was painted as part of the purchase contract,
we didn't have to mess with that this time.
I grew up on a farm,
I've messed with outdoor painting a little bit,
most of that, it was done with a sprayer and, up in the bucket of a loader tractor, or something like that,
it took a lot of the hassle out.
nearly as concerned with a barn or a grainery, or something like that as you would be with your own house.
I wouldn't think so .
Have you guys tackled your ceilings yet?
a little bit,
we got to do that this summer.
We're dreading it.
It's like, they're dark.
Everything else is white.
the opposite of what everybody's, working towards now.
Now have you thought about this? That wherever you buy your paint, you need to make sure that that store's not likely to go out of business.
absolutely .
stocked up the first time around.
we've definitely got all the formulas on file,
be there for a while.
pretty comfortable with that.
real nervous every time open a new can.
I'm wondering if I shouldn't buy about twenty gallons at one time and keep it all washtub or something somewhere because afraid that the next coat is not going to match.
It's gone pretty well.
It just,
takes, it takes some time.
My problem is, while I,
I'm not overly proud of it,
I'm a self proclaimed, perfectionist,
takes me a long time to do trim and things like that.
something as I'm going along, something not related,
I've gone about changing out all the outlets and switches because, really didn't match.
They were,
a few of them were broken and things like that.
I always pick up these little extra tasks as I'm doing this,
the painting actually takes probably, a fourth of the time,
I'm always doing all this other stuff,
my wife's hollering at me and wondering what else I've come home with from work this time put in, a ceiling fan or something strange like that.
it always,
it gets you to look at everything real hard when start putting a coat of paint on everything,
you start to notice where all the dents and scratches and things are everywhere.
I still feel good, the minute I put that paint on, even if it does got a dent in it
I do.
it sure makes a difference.
else can I tell you about painting?
I get it all in my hair, too.
Do you do that?
Spots in it.
bought this house with the idea that we were going to a lot of time working on it,
it was part,
part of the excitement getting a good deal on an older house that just, really hadn't been taken care of very well.
was actually,
it was rented out for a couple of years and things like that.
ended up getting a fairly good deal on it.
there just isn't enough time,
I myself going to work knowing there's a job about half done at home,
I really,
just stay home and finish it, I'd feel a lot better,
starting to learn that there's always something else.
Once you get done, you can always start over
you make up all kinds of excuses.
Are you having to repair the walls at all?
not a whole lot. *
in pretty good condition, as far as, major repairs. of little filling holes and nicks and things like that,
the only,
the most major things have been, I guess moved a couple of outlets, and, switches I should say.
For some reason, they put a bathroom light switch in the hallway
that's smart.
didn't like that very well,
moved that,
in pretty good shape.
where do you live?
live in Dallas.
I'm in Garland.
Did you try to call this weekend?
To that switchboard,
did you keep getting that it was down?
I haven't,
I hadn't tried.
You didn't?
In fact, planting flowers this weekend .
I was pretty tied up,
I've never tried any other kinds of painting besides on a surface like the house
like to paint a picture or anything.
I don't know,
I can't think of anything else to say about painting.
It hurts your back,
it hurts your arm.
you know it .
neck from looking up all the time, things like that
that pretty much covers my experiences.
you're glad you're doing it,
most definitely.
it makes such a difference.
like I say, overall appearance of this house is what really devalued it so much.
I don't want to put a price on it,
I just feel like gallon of paint adds a tremendous amount of value to the house.
time I do something, aside from that it just makes me feel a whole lot better to come home, an the walls are clean,
they match, and all those kinds of things.
Do you have one of those straightedge things to put underneath when you're doing the baseboards?
we do.
sometimes works
it sometimes doesn't.
It's a,
when I start doing trim, gotten to where tend to freehand it because so many layers of paint on this house after forty years that, so hard to tell where an edge is anymore,
On your baseboards?
they y ,
You don't have any carpet down in your house?
there's no carpet in the house right now.
we've got carpet,
I haven't figured out how you're supposed to paint it, on down, so that you won't see where you stopped off
and still not get it on the carpet.
every time you move that edger then it gets the carpet into it.
You can't hold it there until it's dried.
I've seen,
make some plastic edging stuff that comes in three foot lengths.
tape them together
put ...
What do you think about, the way the criminal justice system handles trials?
they tell you that you get tried by a jury of your peers
it's pretty hard to try, the man down the street that's living on Social Security or somebody that's on a limited income to be tried by a jury of his peers if most of the people,
the juries that I've served on, are businessmen.
now they don't understand that, maybe he needed fifty dollars
he held up the seven eleven. *
they don't understand that because they have fifty dollars,
all the time,
I think that a trial by your peers should be exactly that, someone in your own age bracket,
you can't really do it ethnically,
you could do it,
you could probably get it a little closer.
then there's another thing that I disagree with in Texas is sometimes you have a jury of six
sometimes you have a jury of twelve.
I don't know why they do that.
Do you have any reason,
do you know of any reason why they do that?
I think the six is called a Grand Jury
that's mostly to decide whether or not the person's actually going to stand trial.
see .
Whether they're acquitted or whether they're actually going to be accused
Okay .
and held over for trial.
I don't know much about the Grand Jury.
How do you feel about the,
in Texas I noticed since I've been here, twelve years that break up trial and then the sentencing part of the trial.
I don't know.
think that,
I know that judges aren't supposed to be crooked.
we know there's a few out there.
It seems like if you break the sentencing away from the jury and to one person you're letting there be a whole lot more of an opportunity for something to either go wrong
if the judge is not of high moral standards
he could be bought off, much easier
than twelve people could.
would be pretty hard.
that, if I was the criminal, that I would like the judge passing sentence on me.
If the jury found me guilty, then they should be able to decide at the same time what my punishment should be.
I think it's,
not only that, it's a waste of our money.
We have to have a trial for this person,
then two weeks down the road we have to set a sentencing date
so now we're back in court again
that's more money spent.
It's not so much seen a lot of really bad sentences passed either by trials or by judges.
What bothers me is that, they really don't mean anything.
Someone could be sentenced to thirty five years
yet, parole system, it's going to let them out three years for good behavior.
it's not working either.
it's not.
It seems that we have more and more repeat offenders.
I know,
I don't know how you all are there where you're at,
where we're at, now our jails are overcrowded.
We just built a brand new one two years ago.
I think they're all overcrowded.
it's overcrowded.
now they start turning them loose.
I think I heard Fort Worth that, they've been ordered to do something because their jail is so overcrowded.
They're not allowed to accept any new inmates.
Now what are they supposed to do?
They turn them loose.
they're not allowed to accept any new inmates.
what are they supposed to do with people that they need to put in jail?
it's been working here's,
Go ahead. *
It seems the way it's been working here is they let those out that have spent two or three years out of their five to twenty sentence,
or five to life.
Something that is working
really like the system of house arrest where
a bracelet
like a ankle bracelet that's a monitor,
They keep,
they are not allowed,
some of them are even allowed to work,
they can go to their regular job,
they come home,
they have to be home by such and such a time,
they're instructed, so that, electronic monitor
is turned on at, at a certain time
it connects them up to a system where they know their whereabouts.
All right.
they can put a,
they usually install a video monitor in the house
when the parole officer calls to check on them, they're instructed to turn it on and stand in front of it.
All right.
So that they can see that this person is actually at home in their house doing what they're supposed to be doing
that's working rather well.
That's a good system.
That allows people,
it would allow, *
to actually continue to be productive members of society while they're,
instead of being completely penned up.
paying back for whatever crime they've committed.
that way it would give,
the probation department and parole department, they've got to be overloaded with as many criminals as we have here Lubbock.
that would give,
at least they don't have to drive all over town trying to find one guy,
or trying to see six or seven people.
I could go on for hours about the criminal justice system and what I think we ought to do about it.
Sometimes it's pretty messed up,
isn't it.
Something that I really don't understand is when someone goes to jail
and they have a job in jail and they work, that they should,
this may sound cruel,
I do not think that they should be allowed cigarettes.
they're in jail for crying out loud.
What do they need cigarettes for?
there's another thing about the justice system that I don't like
there's a lot of people that tell me maybe my thoughts are wrong.
I came from California
when you're in jail, they take you out just like they do in Alabama or anywhere else, what they call a chain gang.
they clean the city parks.
I think that's a wonderful idea.
they clean the city streets.
we have criminals in jail that do nothing but sit on their duff all day
here it costs us seventeen to eighteen thousand dollars a year to support a prisoner,
More than that.
I know,
More than that.
I know families myself that have three and four children in Lubbock that don't make that much.
I know.
doing anything to support themselves,
The thing that,
while they're there.
the thing that gets me is that while we're supporting them,
they're working.
When they get out of jail they get handed all that money.
That really ticks me off.
I think that while they are in jail and they are working, their wages
should go,
I don't know,
they could,
some percentage, eighty five percent of their wages should go toward their room and board
figured on a whatever basis how much it costs to actually support them for a year.
now (( )) .
when they get out they should have some reasonable amount of money
to start, like a couple of thousand dollars,
there should be a limit over which it all goes back to the State.
Anything that they've earned while they're in prison should go back to the State except for that, there needs to be some allowance for when someone gets out that they have some money to start with.
that way they would be helping pay for their own.
something else that I would,
That's the part that I really think we need to change.
something else that I would like to see victim reimbursement, because they, like you say these guys are in jail
they're working,
they're getting paid,
the guy that they messed over to get there or they stole something from, or beat to death
Has nothing,
has nothing,
victims are victimized, period,
the law has regulations to deal with that.
know how to deal with the penal system
they know how to deal with the criminal,
they don't know how to deal with the victim because we as citizens, I guess haven't laid anything up there for them to deal with on that aspect.
I sure don't,
strongly disagree with any judge passing sentence on a person himself.
There that,
I think it works much better the actual jury.
the jury is dealing with the seriousness of the crime,
the jury gets to see the whole trial, as does the judge,
they figure there's maybe litigating circumstances, or something like that whereas maybe the judge care, you committed this crime
I'm just going to throw the book at you.
Whereas the jury may have a little, sympathy,
he did this,
why did he do this,
in some,
a basis for it.
cases it would work that way.
In some cases it would work the other way.
in some cases where the judge says okay, I'll give you, two to three years
The jury slam them
I think the jury probably has more of a right to sentence than the judge all the time.
they have a stronger debate, too, because there's twelve people there.
They have to decide whether or not he's guilty
they can sit at the same time and decide what his punishment would be,
you'd have more than one person's input on it.
I think that's probably a much fairer way.
we're supposed to be, in a democratic society.
if you can find me guilty, then you ought to be able to pass sentence.
a lot of jurors,
not that I know of,
a lot of jurors may just sit there and say, he's guilty,
I don't have to deal with it from here,
the judge takes care of all of that.
It might be more,
it would be more work for the jury,
it would be a more responsible
it would,
way to deal with it.
serving on the jury person.
The thing that don't really like,
don't know, if, a lot of jury selection processes that I've seen have been a,
You want to start?
we should have a balanced budget even if it means that services are dramatically cut back.
If you can't pay for it, you shouldn't have it.
That is very true.
That's just.
However, our whole economy is based on loans.
bet right this moment, you probably have several loans out
you have borrowed money against your credit card or something
Master Charge.
I don't have a Master Charge,
thank you .
our whole system is built on owing
not borrowing.
that's the problem,
Our system shouldn't be based on owing and borrowing and all that.
without it, people wouldn't be able to own automobiles
they wouldn't be able to own a house.
they would.
They just wouldn't be able to own the kind of automobiles that they think they deserve to own. Or the kind of homes that we think we deserve to own.
We might have to, just be able to,
I think, if a generation went without debt, then the next generation,
my husband and I, we're twenty eight, the budget would balance. And that we became accustomed to living with what we could afford, which we wouldn't be destitute,
we wouldn't be living on the street, by any means.
just compared to how spoiled we are, we would be in our own minds,
I feel like the generation after us would,
it would be so good.
It would be so much better.
It wouldn't be perfect,
then, they could learn to live with what they could afford to save to buy.
if you want a nicer car than that, you save a little longer.
now I agree,
I agree with you one hundred percent.
I'm just taking the other side so we'll have a discussion here.
I still go to right back to what I said.
When is the time you had fifteen thousand dollars all at one time to go out and buy an automobile?
we made poor choices in college.
We took out two,
both of us had twenty thousand dollars in loans, for student loans
I look back on that,
I bought shoes.
I went shopping.
I did not need that money.
I did not need it.
I didn't need it.
I shouldn't have even qualified to get it.
I didn't need it.
it would have been a little rough,
I might have eaten some bologna instead of roast beef out of the deli,
I did not need it.
as I look back now, now we're paying that back.
I told my son, if you have to live in the ghetto to go to college, do it,
don't take out ten thousand dollars in loans.
Don't do it.
I don't think he'll have to do that
I just feel like if we didn't have those loans, we could have saved in the last five years the money for that,
I believe we would have, because God's really put it in our heart not to get in debt,
we have friends in church that do this on a constant basis, that are totally debt free.
they pay cash for everything they buy.
Including new vans,
I guess, I've seen it done
I know you can do it,
you have to drive that old car until you get that money saved up for that new van.
that's where Americans don't like to do it.
we don't want to cut back our services from the government, because we're spoiled.
I have one way to suggest reducing the budget.
Very simple.
Just take all these civil service employees,
and, take some of those holidays away from them, like Columbus Day, President's Day,
I know.
get all these days off.
Now give them,
I know.
what week, I think we here at T I get a total of eleven a year.
that's about, three or four less than civil servants get.
Now just look at that money the government could save if they didn't have all of those days off, all those holidays.
that is true.
I always think the mail never comes on these days
you're like, what is it .
You don't even know it's a holiday .
now don't forget the mail is something else again.
That has nothing,
they're not civil servant people.
isn't it budget?
they have their own budget they go by.
isn't it part of our income,
it's not part of our taxes?
It's not?
That's why the price of mailing a letter keeps going up.
That's why it keeps going up,
I could
That's another topic .
I can remember the days when it cost only three cents to mail, a letter.
Those stamps are valuable, now.
They probably,
I ought to go looking through some of my old mail.
That's funny.
that is a good short term thing, though.
That little things like
overall, though, I just think we're just going to, see,
I know,
I guess I'm kind of leery of this topic, because I know that Bush is real for the new world order. The one world government, and alleviating all, national debt between all of the nations.
I see that to be a potential power problem later, with, who's going to be in charge with this new world order.
uncomfortable with that much power being in one place.
I know, we already have a new money system.
We already have new bills printed, for,
the U S Treasury already has our new bills printed for new currency,
I've seen them .
I know that the long term vision for the U S government is to alleviate all national debts and to start over afresh,
I'm concerned with who's going to have the power over this new world order that they keep talking about,
That's a lot of power for one or two people to have.
I guess because I,
I guess,
in fact, I know what their long term vision is.
I'm kind of like, the only answer is to start over or to totally change our lifestyles.
I don't think Americans are willing to do it.
what about, sending all this money overseas supporting other governments, third world governments.
How do you feel about that?
feel we should loan them money.
If wish our leaders were really seeking the Lord on these things,
if we feel led to give a country money to help them, fine.
I don't feel we should be loaning money like that.
it doesn't work,
in so many cases, it's not a loan,
it's just a give away.
set up as a giveaway.
If it were set up as giveaway,
it was something, that, President and our leaders could be seeking God saying, God is it your will for us to bless this nation with this money,
is it your will, this money and your will for us to give to them,
I believe if we gave it, no strings attached that God would bless our nation.
because motive is interest, our motive is not pure, it just backfires,
none of these nations have paid us back.
you understand, a principle of giving and receiving.
You give it, no strings attached
they may never give you anything back,
because there's no strings attached, it gives them a freedom to give us something back.
it might not be money,
it might be, no taxes on our things, our computers going into their nation,
it might come back in another way,
it would be come back.
because we're loaning it, I think that's the problem.
I don't mean give it to everybody that asks.
Use a lot of discernment.
Don't give money to every nation.
You know, what I'm saying,
I think we're loaning money to too many nations,
I think if we gave to a few select ones, that really needed it, that it would work out better for us and for them.
now we have all these nations that owe us all this money
I just think, we're never going to get that back,
Do you understand?
understand that France still owes us money from World War I.
World War Two debts have never been repaid.
I think the U S just wrote them all off.
And said, we'll cancel it just like they did to that Polish debt here, last week.
half the countries of the world simply canceled the Poland debts to help them.
term though, do you think it would best to see a one world,
you can't alleviate all national debts
do you think it would be better for our leaders to just start seeking God on how to turn our nation around financially?
That's my opinion.
My opinion's the latter.
I've got to respect your opinion.
You have some
solid ideas.
I know.
What's yours?
Do you agree
do you disagree
what do you think long term?
I don't believe in a single government or a single control for the world.
that's asking for trouble.
People are too different.
you could travel from one coast to the other here in the U S and find a tremendous differences between the peoples.
They have their own ideas how things should be run.
therefore, I don't believe there could be a single government for the whole world.
There's too many societies involved,
the language barriers.
somebody said years ago, let's make it English, international language.
That's a big laugh,
we can't even make English a national language here in our country.
We've got too many, immigrants.
I know.
They don't call them immigrants anymore,
that was back in my granddaddy's day.
Different ethnic groups .
I know what your saying. *
My grandfather came over from Lithuania back, just before the turn of the century
as a matter of fact he's a draft dodger.
He, was supposed to serve some time.
he did serve his time militia.
he came back.
He was a civilian again
his father said if,
tell you what. I'll let you start .
My major source of information, I guess, is T V news .
I, wake up to it in the morning.
This is prime time for news, first thing in the morning while I'm getting ready to go to work.
I quite frequently glance through headlines or, in the newspaper.
primarily mine is T V news.
How about yourself?
I agree with you,
I normally don't have time in the morning watch any type of T V.
Usually catch it going to work on the radio. Or when I drag the paper in from the front and (( )) catch the head lines, which is normal what you see the night before on the evening news.
Huh *
kind of,
we have a one year old in the house
it's kind of hard sometimes to watch T V during the night,
I usually try to catch the ten o'clock or,
those type of (( )) .
I have to say, during the war the American public was probably flooded with too much information
as far as the (( sub )) question about was, am I (( satisfactorily covered )) , I have to say yes.
when it came to the war issues, who's telling the truth.
Between the channels there was, the casualties, the amount of missiles launched were different
it was almost too much information, over communicated.
that's true,
my personal opinion is that the various network news medias were trying to interpret the news to the best of their abilities since they were not very well informed by the military.
I agree with you.
Now, I can appreciate that, especially after what happened in Vietnam.
which is a joke.
let's face it,
today's, means of communication, very well giveaway a piece of top secret information.
And, pat himself on the back making a good scoop.
That's a good point.
I would have to say across the board, I'm satisfied with the way, the news is spread.
of course here at Texas Instruments, the rumor mill runs rampant.
The secretary's probably the best resource,
of what the layoff status is.
Very true.
I find (( T News )) very enlightening, too.
I check that everyday.
Of course, with that goes along with the stock price of T I.
I agree you.
I think, I'm glad you mentioned that, because I think I have to, since I don't have the opportunity in the morning I'll probably catch the head lines on (( T News )) .
That's a good point.
Of course, (( T NEWS )) is more or less headlines,
I don't think much of their sports coverage.
. True.
Kind of,
Only give the scores.
that's all right.
too interested in other games, other sports, anyway.
the, (( T NEWS )) is a good way to keep up to date.
I think they do a pretty good job of selecting the most important items.
They do.
Surely do.
anything else crossed your mind.
I guess most of us go by the audio, which is the television or the radio.
you need to continue to read, so you people learn to read, .
I spent twenty years in commercial broadcasting (( )) radio and T V,
I know what it takes to get some of those little bits and pieces of news on the air,
are times where, the reporter actually will risk and limb.
I've seen it happen time and time again.
I remember one time up in Nashville, Tennessee.
One of the fellows got mixed up in a riot that was going on down there,
he was lucky he got out of it for some reason.
he was carrying a camera,
they left him alone.
Everybody got excited.
That's tough.
That's tough.
I've enjoyed speaking with you.
Nice to talk to you, too, Jim.
Did you get your catalog on gifts?
Really I just got mine in the mail
it kind of sparked me to keep calling .
I'll be looking for it then.
There not to shabby. *
They're pretty good.
Is that right?
good. *
Have a great day.
You, too.
Bye bye.
I'm sorry,
Ready to go.
I do that,
we recycle, newspapers.
We take, the DALLAS MORNING NEWS daily,
and the Plano paper daily
after a month of that you got a ton,
of newspapers.
I know it builds up really fast.
It really does,
I do recycle,
newspapers and, glass.
We don't really have enough plastic to mess with,
drink milk
we don't have children
we don't have, six thousand plastic milk jugs,
we do, .
a month,
With year old and a,
three year old
it really builds up with us.
a place you can take those also at the same place just put them in a different, container.
Plano has plans
I believe it's tentatively scheduled for sometime in May of this year,
the city is going to leave, receptacles at people's home.
they ca ,
That would be much more convenient.
certainly would
they can separate it
the, trash guys will pick it up.
Which would really be handy, for people like shut ins, or,
people who can't or don't drive,
it just builds up so often,
they can't get to the these centers.
I'm sure rather than try to, ask someone to take them for them they probably just pitch them,
I think that's probably a good idea.
They used to have several places, that were a little ways out in the community that did the paper and all,
they stopped doing it because they said it wasn't profitable.
finally, the people put so much pressure on the city,
they did a survey of everybody,
they took a big huge bin that has paper and plastic,
and put it in front of the Wal Mart store in town,
it just really,
every time you went by there it was just over flowing,
That's right.
Wal Mart complained ,
they moved it behind the store
nobody knew where it was,
people kept piling stuff in the same place,
where it used to be.
Great .
it was just like a dump there,
I bet it was.
finally, I called
said, it was behind there
I started taking my things behind there.
we do that because we have milk cartons, constantly,
with two little kids,
and the paper,
it just builds up,
it would be so nice if they had it, at your home,
where you could just turn it in so final had enough of a response that they decided to try a small target area ,
in one neighborhood,
they have pickup there,
it's, I think once or twice a week.
the first couple weeks they did it nobody got their stuff out
they had not much participation,
they were going to cancel it,
then finally people started getting the message.
It's just a matter of education, I think.
I think that, if they can get enough going,
they'll continue it, throughout the rest of the city
it's not,
I think originally people thought it would be profitable for cities to do this,
it's not going to be,
I don't think .
that's right.
I think basically it's a good idea,
I hope it works.
I do to because it's amazing, how much, trash,
we can generate,
I know this year we took our Christmas tree
they had a place,
in the park where you could go have your tree shredded
they gave you a little, seedling to plant,
you could take mulch home with you, and take buckets of that home,
that was really good idea,
I thought.
there's just, the two of us my wife and I
it's amazing how much stuff the two of us generate,
I can imagine a family of, four or five.
it's really,
it adds up so fast.
It really does.
As far as new stuff to recycle, know,
I really hadn't thought about it to tell you the truth.
they're working on diapers,
That's right,
I was,
which would be great,
I've read so many different things about diapers
now their saying that originally they thought the disposables were just awful,
now their saying that they're, really not that much in comparison to the others because you don't have to use the water to wash them,
That's right.
and, all different kinds of things too,
diaper service, trucks
apparently the fuel that they use and the fumes that they produce to deliver,
and drop those off .
I don't know what's the, right thing to do
I really would hope that they would come up.
I know there was a brand just briefly on the market that was recyclable ,
the landfill have to do something special, for those,
I see.
that just generates a tremendous of volume of trash too,
I'm sure it must.
I'm not personally involved because have any children that wear diapers,
I'm sure it creates a large amount of,
It does,
you just feel guilty if you don't do,
That's right .
something with them,
That's right.
because you hate to contribute to the problem,
on the on the other hand the alternatives aren't to great either .
That's right,
I don't know what else they could recycle more of.
I guess we don't really use that many tin cans.
I guess there's some places where you can recycle aluminum
I don't know about cans that you keep vegetables and stuff,
I don't know if those are recyclable
I think they're made out of aluminum,
a receptacle, at the centers also for aluminum,
again generate that much
we don't,
we don't either,
we usually use frozen vegetables and things
we don't really have,
That's right.
much of that.
ninety nine percent of ours is newspaper glass.
now when we lived out in California they actually had places where you could recycle if you change the oil in your car,
or for aerosol cans and things,
like that because they say it's not safe to put those things,
That's right.
in the regular trash .
Car batteries.
change my own oil,
don't have that problem.
other than that I'm not really sure,
try to recycle old clothes .
we do to as a matter of fact. *
Our church has a place,
where you can take them
they, pass them on to,
other families,
we have one of those in town.
our church each year has a,
one of their major fund raisers is, a garage sale.
there's a ton of clothes always, left over
I take those down to the,
it's called the Clothes Closet,
that's what it's called here in Plano.
Kind of like a Goodwill, *
kind of place. *
they distribute them to the people,
that need them.
real helpful,
I'm not sure I can't really think of anything else that we could recycle.
I can't either ,
I really can't,
really can't either.
it was nice talking to you.
You to.
All right.
Bye bye.
Bye bye. .
what types of music do you like to listen to?
I primarily listen to classical music when I have my druthers, partly because I find it more soothing.
I don't know a lot about classical music so far as, any background in music,
it's I enjoy the most.
How about you?
I like classical music also.
like you, I don't know a whole lot about it,
would like to buy more classical tapes and stuff,
I'm not sure which composers or which (( ))
I really like,
I kind of hesitate
to buy something.
There are certain kinds I like and certain kinds I don't.
I tend to listen to the classical music, on the radio a lot.
stations in this area that play, classical music all the time,
there's one in particular that is on both A M and F M so I can listen to it without, worrying.
It's cute, though, because my children, when they get in the car, and I have, the button pushed for that, they always switch it to something else .
naturally that isn't their taste
at this point in time anyway.
I understand that.
you involved in music?
not really.
My husband is,
I do, the world a favor
I don't sing aloud,
to anybody but myself .
my whole family is somewhat musical, and not from training, but just because we sing in our choir
my daughter's quite involved and all that sort of thing.
I think that one of these days maybe she'll get involved in classical music, too, because that's usually what happens unless you get into rock, which isn't her voice style.
don't care for rock, at all.
I guess I'm real old fashioned in my musical tastes.
most of it is not all that exciting in that it is terribly repetitious.
It's loud and repetitious without having a great deal of meaning.
Now I do like folk song.
there have been some nice folk songs over the years that, kind of still hang around.
the more popular music I don't care for, usually.
even when I was a teenager I didn't really like the music of that period so much because I found I liked, a little bit more melodious music than what was often the popular,
rock and roll kind of sound.
I agree with that too.
Although now I kind of enjoy hearing the rock and roll, I guess it makes me think I'm young again .
now rock and roll seems tame compared to the New Age and all that stuff.
Isn't that the truth?
It's funny.
In fact, it's interesting to me that so many of the songs,
now I grew up in the late fifties and early sixties,
much of the music that was popular at that time, has come back.
don't hear everything all the time,
you hear much of the same music, perhaps a new version of it,
it's the same stuff.
which is always kind of funny.
I remember my older sister.
I have a sister who's sixteen years older,
at the time that I was I guess, I can't remember the year, SMOKE GETS IN YOUR EYES became popular.
I think it was done by maybe the Platters or something.
she laughed
she said, when I was a teenager, that had been,
some years before, she said, that was a version of, a song then.
she said, It's very similar,
they've changed a little bit.
She said, I like the original version better.
they did it again, about two or three years ago,
I laughed again.
I said, Oh no, here we are .
Crops up every so often.
It does indeed.
I listen to, the Christian radio station when I'm in the car.
K L T Y.
I like to listen to some of that.
now some wonderful Christian music when you can find good stations.
the that I found, in this area is that there is inconsistency in the quality
If you get someone who's very good at selecting, it's okay,
sometimes they kind of get on a binge,
they play the same sort of thing over and over again, without really necessarily quality.
where do you live?
I live in the, Washington, D C area, (( )) Maryland.
I thought maybe you lived in Dallas, because that's the complaint I make to my husband about the radio station too.
I said, they're playing one of their ten
It seems like every week they pick ten
they just play them over and over,
there's so much available
that I don't understand why they do that.
now my children sometimes,
they've gone to a few of the concerts and so on of Christian musicians that come to our youth group at our church.
when they buy a tape or something, sometimes that's fun because it's different and something I've not always heard,
I enjoy that.
My husband likes Sandy Patty songs.
He likes to sing those in church.
He'd buy all the sound tracts he could get his hands on *
if he had the money to.
that's nice.
is your husband a singer?
just an amateur singer.
He sings in the choir
he likes to do special music and stuff at church.
that's a good thing to do.
I like to hear him sing.
He does a good job.
That's nice,
do you have children?
not yet,
we're expecting a baby in July.
I guess we'll start listening,
That'll be a musician.
maybe so.
We'll start listening to children's music .
there's some wonderful Christian, children's tapes.
there are.
I know when my children were younger, we found a lot of really nice tapes liked.
there was an Agape music group,
still find going over in my head over and over again because they were really, very memorable
even though my children are now,
my youngest is almost sixteen.
I still find from those tapes I enjoy.
there's one that's, a little girl singing Practice Makes Perfect.
she's playing the piano.
gets the wrong note every now and then.
then she keeps repeating it, practice makes perfect,
talking about that so far as Christian life, too,
it's really cute.
that sounds really cute.
I tell my husband to sing to my stomach, because they say that babies can hear quite a lot while they're still in the womb,
I said, then it's born you can hold it
and sing that again
maybe it'll comfort her, when she's fussy and stuff.
do you know something?
I have always played classical music, or classical style,
it's not always classical as, the official, word might go,
even when I was pregnant, of course I listened to that,
when our first child was, an infant, of course, when I was around the house, I played that music, too.
When he first made sounds that you could detect they were in
Someone else noticed it
How strange.
I said, I guess that's true.
it was somewhat melodious,
in other words
it wasn't just
it was really funny .
I'll say, that is .
we'll have to keep up with that then.
I do think there is probably an influence there, because I noticed that even though popular music, wilder stuff, was around when my older children when they first start listening to music on their own
they first ask for a radio of their own, and so on,
this same child, really listened to more, ballady or, pleasant sort of songs the real hard rock stuff that so many other kids listen to.
never, I didn't want to say too much for fear he would think it was wrong and wouldn't do it anymore .
have something to rebel against .
Right .
then I must say they all kind of like a variety of music, which is nice,
I like that.
that's good,
variety is good.
I guess that covers it.
It was real good talking to you.
it was nice talking to you,
good luck with the baby.
Bye bye.
Charles, gun control,
what are you, or no comment?
I'm very much in favor of gun control.
you are?
I am.
this should be very interesting,
because I'm against it.
mind people owning guns,
I just think it should be a little more regulated.
now something that, first occurred to me when they started having all these problems with these automatic, weapons.
now there always has been a federal law against fully automatic weapons.
I believe that's correct,
yet, the gun control enthusiasts preaching about the gun control and how have stronger laws and what not.
I don't understand why we don't enforce the laws we have.
That would certainly help,
I'm sure.
Now this is not just a state law,
this is a federal law,
controlled by the Treasury Department.
for fully automatic weapons.
now for instance,
in California where they passed the semiautomatic
now what was it they called them?
The military version, attack weapons,
or something?
is that going to affect the, sports weapons? rifles,
that are automatic or semiautomatic?
I really don't have any problem, Jack, with, people using firearms for sporting purposes.
I don't have any problem,
the only thing I,
I am in favor of the seven day waiting period.
I would like to happen.
now, I've got to admit I'm inclined to agree with you there
even though I am a member of the N R A,
their reason being that if you let one little law get through, pretty soon one's going to stack up on top of another,
and so forth and so on.
I understand that.
you've got to admit that Congress does kind of look at things that way.
that's true.
like I say, I don't have any problem with people using firearms, for sporting purposes or hunting purposes,
I just think it's just may be a little too easy to acquire one.
a whim of some sort.
now did you hear about control that they have up in Virginia?
I'm not sure I have.
it's a little hard to believe,
they can, of course,
about every other state in the union they have a felony law.
Anyone ever convicted of felony cannot purchase a weapon.
they don't have a waiting period, because they have access to computer records concerning all these felons.
the ,
when you go in and buy a weapon or a handgun in, Virginia, the salesman just calls some number and, punches in your name,
if it comes up negative, okay, fine,
you get right then and there.
I see.
they are the only state that does it.
that's interesting.
according to Virginia, it didn't cost all that much.
don't understand why a state doesn't have those records available anyway.
at least
you would think they would.
records known felons
which are available to local police departments.
I'm surprised that more states doesn't do that.
certainly records are available,
all they would have to do is expand it.
To, connect them into a modem somehow.
I wouldn't think it'd be that difficult to do.
Well, Virginia is not a particularly rich state,
they managed to squeak out a few bucks to do it.
it's, one hundred percent successful.
that's interesting.
I just heard about this last week.
they were bragging about it,
they should have, have pride in this because a good system,
it's working well.
I agree.
they don't need that seven day waiting period.
the whole idea of that waiting period was,
so that, the police could check up on you.
you know what's going to happen there,
those files are going to back up on somebody's desk, just (( some of )) that typical bureaucratic work.
that's another, thorn in my side,
I agree.
I was,
just thinking there's,
we seem to be one in favor and one against.
I guess that's about right,
Although neither one of us really dyed in the wool.
we both,
I'm not totally rigid on the subject,
I just think there quite so easy to do.
there should be some way of checking,
now here Texas, all you need is a driver's license.
even felons can still get a driver's license.
don't think they are too,
they're not rigid enough here, in Texas.
that's true.
don't tell the N R A I said that.
I wo ,
I promise.
I won't .
They're liable to tear up my membership.
I promise .
You say you retired a year ago?
I did,
I'm looking forward to it in about over a year, myself.
I really enjoy it.
I stay pretty busy.
I do lot,
I do some, volunteer work here in Plano.
have a few, handicapped persons that I, try to help them do.
I bought a motor home here years ago
I have been living in it ever since,
I'm looking forward to just traveling.
I can understand that.
I have four sons scattered all over the country,
and a grandchildren.
I'm looking forward to just traveling around visiting them.
That'd be neat.
Sure would.
Charles, good luck to you on your,
Nice talking to you.
nice talking to you,
Take care.
Take care now.
Bye bye.
Hello .
thinking about our topic for the night . immigration problems.
We have immigration problems
what you think about it? .
I think it's a very, very complicated,
I sort of, see perspectives on all sides.
I've no hope for solutions.
I do keep myself somewhat abreast of the issue.
I have worked refugees from,
Southeast Asia, who've come over. to escape the genocide programs that are over there.
And heard about some of the problems that they've had.
I'm also fairly sensitive to the issues about how open should the borders be.
I, in general, like a smaller rather than a larger population,
to the land area.
Where are you?
I'm in California,
which has a lot of immigration. Probably more than any where else in the country, though I'm not sure if that's the case.
we've got a lot too.
I'm in Texas.
In Garland, right outside of Dallas.
we're getting a large ,
gosh, I don't know,
I think there's twenty six different languages now, that are spoken in Dallas Innercity School District.
Cambodians, Asians, Vietnamese.
getting a lot of, Mexican Americans,
we've had,
those for a long time.
used to be part of Mexico, or most of it .
I'm busy right now, Steven.
Steven wants me to do popcorn right now.
I don't know what the solution is.
don't either.
It's a really delicate, moral, issue.
you have,
I guess the one thing I do see needs to be a solution is, that if you do let people into the country, I do feel you have a certain obligation to,
To get them on their,
to get them on their feet.
otherwise what you're doing is you're letting people in
dooming them to being underclass people.
you're dooming them to ghetto life or whatever.
I know the Southeast Asians, the Hmong people that I've done some work with, feel very quite hurt unsure of themselves when here.
they're coming the slash and burn intercultural society,
they're coming from the middle ages, basically.
they're being into America.
Many of them had been promised by the C I A, during the war over there, that because they co operated with the C I A, and they helped the C I A out, that when they came here, the C I A would help establish them in America,
the C I A, of course, isn't doing that.
they come here
they don't know the heck they're doing.
they're finding themselves adrift in the big cities.
of course, there are people in the big cities who would like nothing better than to take advantage of them.
incredible victims of crime.
part of it is this lack of,
lack of basic information, being (( dissimilated )) .
I'm not saying it's easy to do,
I know there are a few people who are trying,
the funding isn't there for very much work to be going on.
there's a lot of graft, like people giving them information that was free to them anyway if they just knew how to get it.
Y ,
ha ,
these are people who don't have the foggiest idea about what America's like.
couldn't really conceptualize how hard it was to understand that met with them.
I realized that, some of the information that I just, don't even realize and know is information, they don't have.
I never thought, I guess that is something you need to know,
People getting into trouble because they come here,
they start farming on, available land, Like the median strips on freeways because no one's using it.
then someone comes along and says you can't do that,
Why can't they?
They have no idea why not, of them,
The ones that have been here longer and have been in, understand now.
when they initially come over,
You mean, really trying to plant something?
That's what you're saying?
'cause they're farmers.
are all farmers coming over,
they're being put in the middle of the city .
that's terrible.
they're nomadic farmers,
they're people who farm on the hillside and then leave the hillside to another hillside and farm on that hillside.
These are people who've never seen flat ground before and people who've never seen property rights before. these people who've never seen any machines other than those used in war.
they have,
I do have a lot of sympathy for them,
I feel that America could try a little bit harder help people adjusting to the American way.
if they don't, an underclass,
You're going to get a situation that I think a lot like what happened to the blacks, being sort of led out of slavery
many of them ended up just working the same jobs they were as slaves then.
there was no,
And not being cared for.
real movement.
not being,
That's true.
what did you do when you helped these people?
tru ,
wasn't helping them.
I worked with them, not to help them, but for my own purposes.
a linguist
I was, a little bit.
I actually, helped in the sense that they received money for working with me.
I wasn't a social worker or anything like that.
All right.
I do have friends who have tried to do more,
social work,
by explaining to people how the language,
and what the problems learning English might be and such.
all the models of teaching English are based on teaching English to Spanish speakers or to other European language speakers.
people don't realize how different some of the languages they speak are.
I'm an E S L teacher.
you are?
I got my certification.
they did not teach us very many things about how really to go about helping people to learn another language .
been my impression.
it's like people don't know, what they say,
not, they're not withholding information,
it's not step for step.
they just don't have that information.
haven't the foggiest idea.
I enjoy it.
the kids I've worked with so far have been Spanish speaking.
Spanish is,
I'm applying for,
pretty close to English, really.
it is.
Spanish is a lot like English.
A lot of our words are the same,
they just change the pronunciation a little bit.
I love it.
I love the culture, the way that respect education and their teachers
their parents, so much more than, than my children do.
I like it.
what I've been thinking about doing is volunteering for this, Asian center that, a Doctor Falk has started, that works with the school district.
And trying to get them set up,
into the system.
I thought that would be good experience for me.
I'm sure it would.
I've applied at another district where many of the children are Asian.
I think that would be wonderful too.
it would be a good experience,
you'd be helping people, I'm sure.
Very much.
trivialize the problems of any immigrant group but I do know the Asian groups are having a lot of trouble.
part of the problem is that, a lot of Chinese and Japanese immigration from, decades ago has been very successful because they valued education and so forth.
They became a very successful immigrant group.
a lot of people coming over from Vietnam, right now, coming from worn torn countries, having the same success.
I think some people have just assumed, can't you be successful?
The Japanese were, or the Chinese were, or something.
it's really much more complicated.
the times were different too.
the times are different,
My neighbor, is Jewish.
he's going through Jewish League or something.
And helping a family that's come over from Russia.
he spends,
right now, he's down to once a week,
he was going over there several times a week to be with the family,
and help them with the language.
he thoroughly enjoyed it.
think it's a wonderful thing to do.
I guess another possible solution is, since taxpayers aren't going to start paying more money for this other budgets aren't going to be cut to pay for it,
more of the volunteer network service.
everyone gains from it.
Would be,
might be really useful.
if it's, just people helping people I think the community so much happier.
What's so sad about this is both of man and the woman had a degree having to do with computers
their training isn't what we need in this country.
because they're so deficient in English, they haven't been able to get jobs.
they'll have to go back and get a degree here. almost start all over.
I've known people with effectively worthless degrees in this country.
they're highly educated people,
of course, if you're educated and you don't speak English, no one thinks anything of you.
this woman was, stocking the shelves in a drugstore.
I feel sorry for her.
I do too.
It's been good talking with you.
thank you.
Have a good night.
it does sound like you have some children to take care of .
I do .
bye bye.
I just pressed my,
We're supposed to talk about recent political developments.
I got one that's interesting, controversial,
doesn't matter whether you're Democrat or Republican.
do get somewhat of a kick out of,
because Schwartzkopf, or the other generals, who I admire, how everyone wants to make, get them in politics.
I think
that's kind of an interesting recent thing, that I could think of recently that,
I was wondering what you thought about that
into politics.
They want him because he's popular, not because he can do the job.
been thinking about it,
kind of get a kick out of they always want the hero,
we're looking for a hero.
TIME magazine was saying that in essence the general's staff was comparing to corporate presidents,
they said in general, generals are more familiar with training, that they believe in training more.
They are much more educated than the average corporate president,
they really were very positive on a general's staff person having very much better education than the average, corporate president.
I thought maybe.
think they probably have a better education than the average congressman.
that, too,
that, too.
they talk about the Army
and because of the war
why did we win, and all that,
they talked about how the training was so important.
that's so important in industry,
they're liable to be right. That in the service,
Schwartzkopf, might make a good, politician, whether it be Governor or whatever,
we know he's a good leader,
we know he's a good organizer.
The question is, can he be the man who's ultimately responsible.
like what he said is, a lot of times in his interviews he was talking about, people asking why are you doing this, why are you doing that.
He says, I'm following the orders of my president.
I'm not the one who writes the orders.
I'm just the one who follows them.
it's interesting how they say that when they're usually the top dogs,
everyone has a boss, of course.
Schwartzkopf was ordered to get Iraq out of Kuwait.
he went to the President and said, here's how I want to do it.
he wasn't the one that decided Iraq needed to get out of Kuwait.
that's true,
that's true.
pick one.
I just thought of that one they brought up about politics.
That was, pretty easy
you don't have to pick Democratic or Republican,
you can pick anything you want,
go ahead.
the thing that I'm wondering about is how we get a new congress.
How do we get some of these guys that have been in there for so long,
how do we get them to not get reelected over and over again.
I have an easy answer for that, is that limit it, to eight or ten years max.
whether that's two
I th ,
five year terms or whatever.
That may be our only answer,
I don't really like it.
I don't like the fact that the President is limited in the number of terms he can serve.
you're not.
I think if the President, be him Republican or Democrat,
I think if the President can prove that he's popular, that he can do the job
then the people should be allowed to elect him as often as they want.
I think the reason why we've got these guys in Congress is because of the fund raising rules.
how many of these big campaign contributions that they're running on this year, did they get after they were elected two years ago.
Basically the people,
as soon as they get elected, the people dump all kinds of money on them and say, you're my friend,
you're my friend,
two years later he remembers that.
what they done is they've bought this congressman for two years.
I don't know,
I do like the limitation of the President,
I think there is a needed change.
I think the same thing should happen for Congress.
lik ,
that would be my answer of an
easy way to get these guys out of there for twenty years.
My God, it's ridiculous,
the easy way.
I think the harder way out would be to make the guys that are in there and the guys who are trying to get in there run on more level ground .
We had.
That's what the financing rules and the, the mailing rules and the size of the office staff and all that stuff.
a prob , I think I had one of the subject about voting, and, voting apathy, or something like that,
I think that, the voting rules need to be changed where you have a little more time.
I can't believe that a country our big votes for a President from seven o'clock in the morning til seven o'clock at night,
Of course they have absentee which is getting to be a lot easier,
vote as often on absentee as I can because it's so easy now.
I think, you could make it a couple days.
It's just, if you really want the majority of the people to vote
then give them a couple of days.
I think a lot more people could vote if they were somehow persuaded that it's something worth caring about.
like, recent election about how the Dallas City Council should be made up, that election last December.
Are you in Dallas?
I'm in Dallas city limit.
Boy, I live in Arlington.
I am so happy not to be part of Dallas
when I see those folks there.
It's an ugly mess.
I don't know if you like the mayor,
I think your mayor,
the city council,
what is the woman's name whose, not the mayor but the, *
The manager.
the city manager.
All of them need to be thrown out.
they're just awful, just awful.
what get's me is this thing, it went down to defeat last December by just a few hundred votes.
had passed,
if these people had gotten out the vote, it would have passed
there'd be no more argument.
they're still fighting about it because of the
I know.
way the election went last December.
It's so awful that politicians always spent consulting money. That we put them in office and then they go out and spend a couple hundreds of thousands of dollars to buy consultants,
they don't even do that recommendation,
it's amazing the money that they spend once they get in.
this is supposedly to benefit the minorities,
all the minorities had to do was go out and get a couple more hundred people to vote
you're right there.
they would have had their way.
You're right there.
people are,
the voting is still not as much as you think in all kinds of issues really.
it's pretty sad.
it is.
hopefully people will get more involved.
position is people who don't vote don't have any right to complain about the way the government's going.
those are the ones that are complaining, a lot.
I see it here at T I.
The guys that don't take any interest in, constantly on the negative of everything.
you ask them why they don't vote,
they say they don't want their name on the, jury duty list.
Is that right?
where they get the jury duty list, is from the voter registration.
you're right,
you're right.
I think they could do more about, voting.
(( )) I think they could.
What are the issues?
a Democrat,
I want to just say that I'm so sad that there isn't a strong Democrat.
I don't even know,
I could go out and debate George Bush better than I see any Democrat doing it.
at least I'd like to see compe ,
I like competition,
I think rolling over and put your belly up and play dead,
I'm so disgusted with the Democratic party,
I can not believe it, *
In Presidential races that's about what they've done,
they've got a pretty good lock on Congress and
a lot of local things.
I still think in the last ten years,
of course that's not a recent event,
that's only my opinion,
I guess I really shouldn't talk about that.
I don't know whether they're recent events.
I guess on this, speech thing, they want us to use a variety of words.
How many times have you called, by the way?
I haven't made any calls,
I received about a dozen.
I think, I have to make these,
I get distracted and get to do something else,
all of a sudden my phone rings,
and go, what the heck, we'll talk for a while.
I've already got twelve cards.
You get any cards in the mail?
we got a whole bunch.
I can't remember how many.
I don't know,
I'm amazed by,
of course, we're not talking about politics,
I am amazed by,
people say they got thirty.
I wonder why you need thirty renditions of the persons voice,
I'm not in voice synthesis.
I'd sure like to see a summary of it.
We'll get to politics, .
I think we've used up as much time as we're supposed to anyway.
We're supposed to do five minutes,
that was three minutes ago.
Hey, thanks for the call.
bye bye.
I'm originally from New York
I go visit a lot
their real estate up there is, ridiculous, absolutely ridiculous.
An apartment here,
I live in an apartment
my apartment is three fifteen a month
it's just the one,
how big is it?
it's a one bedroom.
Which is still kind of expensive
I prefer to live a nice part of town because I feel safe here.
I pay more to feel safe,
included in that?
You mean in a one bedroom?
Like washer, dryer or,
just nothing, no microwave,
ceiling fan,
I guess that's something.
It's real cute it's got a little vaulted ceiling and *
Which one is it?
It's Wood,
listen to me I can't even think of the name of my own apartment.
Where is tha ,
right next to Village Green,
it's on,
kind of far north Waco.
used to live in Waco
far north, on Lake Shore where all those apartments are,
it's right up there,
we live in a house here,
it's a three bedroom two bath,
it, I don't know
I got two numbers today,
we were talking about mortgage insurance today with my agent,
it's about sixteen hundred square feet,
which is fine for the two of us.
we looked at a lot of houses that more square footage,
they didn't use it right,
It was a bunch of empty, hallway and stuff that cur ,
that could have been used as (( ))
we've used every bit of it
our house, we bought it for sixty four,
the neighbors house next door to us sold for seventy five,
think we good deal on it.
that looks good when you all get ready to sell, you'll probably do really well.
My father used to live in Dallas,
went back to New Jersey,
we're originally from the East.
my husband's from New Jersey .
lives in Rhode Island,
he lived in New Jersey for a while, now he's in Rhode Island.
he used to like to go,
we used to go, just every weekend just to look at houses, for no reason, we weren't buying one every weekend, but just to look at them.
I got a pretty good feel of, what I want when I do, get my house, whenever that is,
What was I going to say about that,
I completely lost my train of thought.
enjoy going looking at houses
we now,
I kind of have a good idea of what I want.
I know I want a big family area,
that's what we were looking for the first thing.
I saw this awesome house the other weekend,
it was a great big family room
it was circular
the other side was the patio and the backyard,
it had a built in, grill
just, party room,
I was just going I could have a party in here.
that's pretty nice.
that's what we had,
that's what we had looked for, was our main concern was a big living room,
and big closet space,
I like a lot of closet space,
I don't like because,
I don't like to have a lot of things out, just all over the place,
I like to have them kind of tucked away.
what we went for first
we don't, we just have a big living room
a dining room is separate,
some places have,
the house next door to us that we looked at,
had a living room, a dining room and a den.
to stick a wall between two rooms didn't do anything for us just so we could have a living room and a den.
we opted for the just, the whole wide room,
that went from one end of the house to the other, just about.
My father had,
I keep talking about my father because he owned a house,
he had the kitchen, kind of a kitchen and a very long family room,
it's just kind of one room
what he did, he put, a bar right in the center,
and put a glass rack down, so you had wine glasses hanging from the ceiling and then the bar
separated it.
It was still, together,
it just looked a lot better.
I personally don't like the combination rooms.
I think for where we are,
I think we got a real good deal on it
have a,
the backyard is just huge.
It is just really,
I think another house could fit back there.
I'd like a big backyard.
we really liked it,
of course, when you have to mow it ,
in, middle of August, kind of,
A little hot.
a little hot,
Try to do it early in the mornings.
that was, a big selling point too,
I think another thing that was really nice was that our neighbors on the other side of us bought the lot right next to us.
they've lived there and have it all built up,
they've got a whole garden and trees and everything
it's not like, we're,
kind of secluded,
we don't have a neighbor's fence coming up to ours.
that's good.
right up to our bathroom window or whatever it is.
a lot of the little model homes that they throw up in three days.
That's true,
they do throw those up.
Are you all planning to move anytime,
are you looking for a house, or not.
not at all,
in fact, talked about that just a little bit,
we were joking around about, winning a sweepstakes,
and what would we do with the money
Steve said we'll I'll buy a bigger house
I said no, I would just fix this one .
like where it is
I like how it's laid out
it took us forever to find it.
To find it,
when we found it, we knew it.
You knew that was it.
I'll probably move to another apartment or something because I'm really,
what's the word,
I move a lot anyway,
because the job I have I only work,
like here, I'll be here for a year
I'll move off,
I can move up,
news reporter.
I work at Channel Six.
this is my first job
I won't be here very long,
I'm not even looking to buy anything as permanent as house,
I'm in an apartment
I'm not married or anything,
It's no biggie.
one thing is once get into a house it's like, you get more stuff,
to put it all back into an apartment would just never work (( )) .
God, I can't believe we moved out of an apartment and had this much stuff
it actually fit,
Of course we got it on, a little bit of more furniture and stuff,
it was just unreal.
I'm amazed at how much stuff I've accumulated in my apartment,
because, up to this point I was in school so I'd go home every summer
I could take all my stuff home, because I didn't have a bed or a couch or of that,
now I could not move back home.
I just realized this, the other day,
I'm going wait a minute,
I can't go back home for the summer or anything, I have too much stuff.
it was just a weird transition out of home ,
I have to move in apartments just because I have so much stuff.
three fifteen over there's probably not real, real bad.
it's not,
it's not.
for as many,
gosh as many apartments and condo's are over there,
my goodness,
especially around Lake Shore area, that area's picked up quite a bit since we were there,
are tons of apartments down here,
had lived in the,
gosh, I'm not sure what they're called now
they were Lake Shore Apartments that are right next to the
M C C,
think they're called Lake Shore Villa or something.
the ones next door to those,
there were Lake Shore,
there's a,
I don't know what they look like now.
it's a nursing
there was a nursing home or something right there.
there was a nursing home
there's an apartment
there's another apartment.
we lived in third ones
they we moved in when they were brand new,
we drive by now and think, gosh,
look how much it's changed
How often do you all come through Waco?
every now and then,
it just,
Depends on what's going on.
it's not really,
now that it's sixty five it doesn't take hardly anytime to get there, run to the mall or run to Sam's or,
or whatever.
We used to run to Lobster
now they've got one in Killeen,
all right .
we don't have to run that far .
about how things are
seems like the market here's picking up.
You think,
I really think it is.
Just for the fact that the,
seemed like as soon as we bought this house we saw all these houses for sale,
I think now a lot of them are selling
a lot of sellers are getting close to what they want instead of, just having to give it away.
Waco to me like it's pretty steady.
I'm not a real estate person or anything,
a real college town
you have these apartments
houses are all, most of the houses are pretty nice,
really see a lot on sale or anything
people are pretty stable here.
I kind of see this as kind of a retirement community, as I always call it.
saw, I see that a lot too, there.
it's nice too.
I liked living there.
Nice and quiet,
I don't think I could live here much longer
I'll deal with it.
(( it )) ,
I guess we chewed up the house market,
and apartment market for a while.
okay it was very nice talking to you.
You too, Tanya.
you take care,
All right.
bye, bye.
Bye, bye.
kind of car,
did you just buy a car
are you in the market to buy a car
I'm real close to being in the market to buy a car.
I've got, a couple older cars,
they're both over ten years old
they've served me well,
I kind of would like to get a more, gas efficient car
and a newer model, something looks a little nicer.
I've got three children at home. Two fourteen year olds and a twelve year old,
I need to make sure I've got one that I can fit,
all five of us into.
know anything about teenagers it's kind of hard to get them to sit together for any amount of time.
seem to remember when I was young that was a problem .
No, *
car was big enough for that .
I've kind of been leaning towards a Caravan.
now I know they've gotten quite pricey in the last couple of years,
I like the Dodge products
couple times I've had a opportunity to rent one
I've been really pleased with its performance and with the size
because if you get the seven passenger version you can put some space between the kids.
I think serve us well.
it's got, good storage capacity in it for, taking things along,
going to the store,
Which is the one that has modular type seats?
You know which one I'm talking about?
They have the commercial on TV where pull some seats out,
you can move around.
Exactly correct.
if you want,
the Dodge Caravan,
that does that
the Dodge Caravans will do that.
you can take the,
usually there's double seat behind the, front buckets.
if you get the,
there's a that goes in the back.
Now what you can do is you could take that middle seat out and just have the three seats in the back,
and the two seats up front,
you can take the, three seat out and just use the two seat
you can take the two seat and move the two seat to the back.
it's very versatile.
You can move,
the seats all around.
About the only thing you can't do is take that three person across seat,
and move it forward.
the one that,
I can't remember it's the Toyota one of the other ones.
I don't know if it's one of the Americans or the import ones where, they actually have some bucket seats in the back
you can actually pull them out.
they're really easy to pull out.
you can, move them around and stuff
to me, would be real good for us.
my husband and I, like to go camping and stuff,
right now we have a van which is,
it's an older van
thinking about buying another sedan, probably next year.
right now motorcycles takes precedence,
since what my husband really wants right now.
next year we'll probably buy a new car
we're looking at, possibly the Honda Accord.
that's kind of,
as the interior, it's got the luxury interior,
it doesn't really have the luxury price tag that a lot of the other cars have, which is one of the things that we were looking at.
finding something fairly affordable, but, yet has all the nice luxury items that we want.
I think that's getting to be kind of important now that, the price is becoming the driving factor,
you look at,
once you realize how much money you've got to spend, then you start looking around what you can buy with it, where before I think looked at the car you wanted,
you looked to see how well you could afford it .
how you could afford it.
I think it's going to be a lot easier now.
I just heard that they lowered the prime lending rate,
I think it's going to be a lot easier to, to be able to get a car now
and finance it.
I think banks are going to be lenient.
I know they're trying to do everything they can to, end the recession.
dropping the prime is probably one of the things.
I just bought a new house
I got nine and a half percent interest rate.
I'm not sure I could do much better today.
that is also effecting buying a new car .
I can imagine.
You got to kind of that into your budget.
that and that,
Balance that and the house payment,
of course, if you buy a new car you're going to,
are any of your kids driving age yet?
two fourteen year olds will be, fifteen on the fourth of July
they twins?
they're twins born on the bicentennial.
You're going to have twins have them on the bicentennial, July fourth seventy six .
I've still got another full year and three months before they're going to be behind the wheel,
of a car.
America's safe for another fifteen m ,
after that,
, I may keep one or both of the two cars currently have, for them to drive.
they're small enough that a first time driver could handle it, yet big enough that I that,
if they were in an accident they would survive.
Know what I mean.
don't get that kind of feeling with the kind of car like you talked about, the Honda.
They're just,
Honda's very safe.
accidents, more so that a lot of the American cars.
Is that right?
(( Matter of fact )) I just heard something today the news about those,
automatic seat belts that are attached to the door
they're questioning the safety of those now saying that,
they showed, a simulation where there they had a dummy in the car
the door opened
the dummy actually fell out of the car
the car rolled out on top of him.
they're saying they're not as safe as,
they give the appearance of being safe,
they're really not as safe appear to be.
I'm kind of concerned about that as far as, the seat belts.
I don't know if Maryland has seat belt law,
they do have one in Texas.
you're required to wear them.
The thing is that they're,
I think it's a two part seat belt, though,
there's the, door belt
there's one,
a lap belt.
probably fifty percent of the people that have those probably don't wear the lap portion of it.
I know my brother doesn't
he has one in his car.
Make sure you smack him around then .
kind of gives you a false sense of security.
You think, I've got one portion of my seat belt on,
if your door comes open, it's not going to do you any good.
that's a concern of mine as far as, what I'll be looking at with buying a new car.
I'm not really sure if I would want the seat belts attached to the door.
I think I would feel better with them attached to the actual car.
The inside where they're normally attached to,
behind the door.
a good source of information I've found has always been these, used car manuals
because you can flip through the used car manuals
they'll give you a list of all the problems that the car's had in the past.
you can look at track record on,
a car over the year,
you usually notice, a lot of problems at the beginning and then things kind of iron out,
to where,
there's fewer problems.
you get an idea on how well next car's going to be.
Now as long as they aren't changing the model, when the, Pontiac Grand Prix went from being a huge car to a small car they had a lot of problems,
with the smaller car.
As long as they aren't,
Le Mans is like that, too.
we used to have a Le Mans when I was high school,
it was a big car.
it was like Grand Prix,
in, I think around nineteen eighty, they changed the model
it, went to half the size.
it got chopped in half
it wasn't even the same car anymore.
Didn't even remotely resemble the old car.
I remember when that happened.
unless they're really changing the model, chances are that it's probably going to have fewer mistakes than it had the year before.
everybody that I've talked to who's ever had a Honda
loves them.
my husband had a Honda,
it was a lease car
he had to turn back in, a year and a half ago.
he had it for four years and never had a single problem with it.
it was great.
the only reason why we ended up not buying it was because we didn't feel, at the time the residual was sixty five hundred dollars
it was a four year old car with seventy thousand miles on it
we thought that was a little bit too much to pay for
a four year old car .
I agree.
we ended up,
ahead and just turned the keys back in got out of the lease.
one thing am curious about is, reading information on air bags, some of the vans I think, I don't know about the Dodge Caravan,
some of the vans now have driver side air bags.
Which I think is a good idea.
was much younger, than I am now, had wanted to go to the Peace Corps
it seems like it was something that really to do.
Can you speak up, please.
Seems like wanting to go to the Peace Corps was something that I had really wanted to do when I was young.
I don't believe they accept you married
you have, kids and all that
I got into,
I wasn't able participate.
they will accept you later in life also.
they will?
after your children are grown.
I didn't know that.
Then there's no age limit?
Your kidding. *
I'm not.
Some of the people that have been involved with Peace Corps, among other things, were retired teachers.
there was a retired plumber that went to, Uruguay I think and helped them quite a bit with concepts in plumbing, providing better public hygiene.
Goodness I'm surprised.
I really had no idea.
do you think that people should be required to give a couple years for the good of the country?
, really think that it should be mandatory.
I don't know,
that just might not be something that everybody wants to do,
there are a lot of people who would like to do it,
there are a lot of people who get into other things
they get all involved
they just, don't want to or don't have the time.
I understand,
if it were (( told to us )) that we would find the time somewhere between our seventeenth and, twenty sixth birthday to give a year or two to the, to the country in the form of maybe building better roads or the parks service or the Peace Corps or the military service or something. Wouldn't we have, maybe a better class of Americans?
I don't see how that make a better class of Americans mandatory for everybody to participate.
pardon the terminology,
yuppies, now, are interested in one thing and one thing only
and that's themselves.
That's true.
think that,
at least if you legislated,
giving for a couple years of their lives (( honestly )) purely giving some sort of equitable exchange, then at least the country would have gotten two years from them where, they would have given something to the country instead of away all their lives.
you suggesting then that if I have to go do something for the country for two years that the country will compensate me in some way.
will be compensated for this,
I'm not just going to,
entire life for two years, *
It will be a job of sorts,
I'm sure, that the Peace Corps doesn't pay well,
it's not top wages,
it does pay.
The military,
for young (( hiring in )) soldiers does pay,
it doesn't pay well.
currently in our country, especially in some regions, there's an employment problem.
You're aware of that I'm sure.
that's true.
our region there's an employment problem.
There's a lot of, people gotten laid off lately. from (( just )) companies like General Dynamics, and,
And Texas Instruments.
and Texas Instruments, .
Thousands, and thousands of people are out there looking for jobs.
(( another time we had the W P A,
, no,
I'm not,
Works Progress Administration,
I'm not familiar with that.
during the great depression,
though I can't see why it was great.
that gave people pay that was halfway between relief which was welfare,
and the minimum wage.
I see,
program where people gave their time,
In trade for,
in trade for,
for money,
They gave them food and uniforms
here in Colorado you'll find a great many things.
Public roads that were worked on by the W P A, dams that were built by the W P A,
scenic overlooks, parks,
system's falling apart.
national road of highways,
and roads, is falling apart.
then I guess there are things that people could do to contribute to the good of the country.
a lot of work to be done.
really don't see anything wrong with it,
I just don't think that it should be mandatory that every person have to do that.
can't see the problem in it for a year.
Th ,
I'm saying is that if it were mandatory,
that every person, right after graduation from high school,
that were able bodied,
would trade a year,
then they,
at least one not more than three or four, then it would definitely effect unemployment.
All right,
I wonder they didn't make it mandatory if they would actually get enough people volunteering do it would have enough.
I don't know.
Texas, New Mexico, Colorado, huge numbers of other western states, have no real welfare system.
There's Aid to Dependent Children, and Aid to Mothers of Dependent Children,
there's no real welfare system.
if we took these people the streets for a year, there would darn sure be more hours labor available in the nation for everyone else.
who knows, maybe some of our graduating high school seniors would find out a little bit more of what the traditional American work ethic means.
we have had some problem with that in recent years.
we have.
recent generations know exactly what you are talking about,
know several people who do not wish to work.
they wish only for the paycheck.
they wish for the money
decide that they're going to get the money anyway they can
Really producing.
without, without working in traditional American job market.
be it selling drugs or whatever.
(( one )) other thing,
get the money anyway they can.
maybe if we instilled the work ethic,
get together with family reunions
we try to.
we have not in some years now.
I think we are going to try to have one this summer.
that will be fun
My aunt
if you have
is planning it.
not done it in a while.
where is your family from?
Is it?
Southwest part of Missouri.
you are going to have to go there?
That be where it is.
she gets it planned.
I have been out of town,
I do not know what she has been doing.
they are all getting very, very old.
All my aunts and uncles.
we need to see them soon.
My family is from Kentucky.
Most of them is down there.
I have got an uncle in Louisiana and another sister here in Texas.
Do you all get together often?
We did when I was growing up.
It was every summer we got together.
my grandmother just passed away this last year.
I think as
she was th ,
we get older, it is to, when
all my aunts and uncles are in their eighties now,
it is,
take charge and do it days.
I still have elderly parents alive.
it takes a lot of effort to either get everybody called or written and settle on a date,
sure does.
if they are,
in Kentucky it wasn't hard because everybody lives so close together.
We just did it of mouth.
my uncle in Louisiana, he is the only one that, had to travel.
now I have got a sister in Germany,
my gosh.
we are just scattered all over the place.
it is going to be hard this time.
we have got a huge family.
we need to have more and more of them.
that is not a lost art, people getting together as they do spread out all over the world.
it is so fun.
it is.
mother has got thirteen brothers and sisters .
I see.
She has got a huge family.
every one of them have five or six kids. most of them,
have got kids .
that makes a big crowd.
It is,
two baseball bleachers full of people,
Is that?
there are still about people taking pictures.
Is that right?
it was just,
the last time we had one it was so fun.
That is wonderful.
I hope,
we need to have another one.
I hope my aunt is successful as, later.
it is probably not going to be done because I have not heard from them.
was supposed to be this June,
I do not imagine there is anything coming.
This is hardly, almost June.
we have always had ours in a park or something.
it has away been the same park
there is nothing really special there.
Only thing is, it is big,
that is,
it is open.
we have it usually one park because there is a pavilion there, in case
it rains.
you have to have it, fairly early in the summer or it is too hot up there.
In Missouri?
In Missouri,
it is just, very humid,
the old people cannot take it anymore.
that was part of the problem with the ones we have.
the kids would sneak off.
we were just being kids,
we found what we thought was just an old water hole.
we was going swimming.
like I said, we was just big kids.
We was eight and ten years old.
our parents came and caught us.
We had been playing in the sump.
It was part of the sewage cleaning system.
Isn't that great?
Kyle, don't.
I have got a four year old.
that keeps you busy.
if we could have gotten it by a lake or something, I thought that would have been much better.
It would have been. Something for the young people
to do.
there was a baby pool,
just about a foot deep.
I remember my little brother riding a bicycle through it.
We were all kids anyway .
Every family has all that going on,
I am sure.
I love it, all the different foods, because that,
I do too.
That is the best part of it.
That's the,
bringing something for a potluck picnic
how long did you say it has been since you all had one?
I do not know.
I think it has been, years. Or five even, since they have tried to get everybody together.
They are just spread out so much,
we really need to, no matter what kind of crowd they get.
I hope,
I have been married almost five,
I guess it has been seven years since we have had one.
since then we have lost, just our grandmother.
That is surprising.
time flies so fast,
it may have been long since we have one.
It is hard to remember,
I think it has been about four or five years.
hope both our families get to have one soon.
if I can ever get down to Kentucky.
It has been four years since I have been home.
It is difficult with little ones.
I know when we had,
That is,
had our,
the reason, that is the reason I don't.
I would get on a bus any day by myself,
I won't do it with the babies.
I have got, a four month old and a four year old.
I am just starting.
I just quit too .
I am telling you.
That is,
I won't be adding any more to the family reunion .
takes a lot of effort right two little ones like that.
They are good kids though.
I am not too upset.
I have enjoyed talking to you.
Enjoyed talking to you.
All right.
Good luck in everything.
All right, you too.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
let's see,
like to go out to eat,
I really do,
being from Dallas, I think we have an average of six or seven restaurants that open and close every month
a really high turn over rate.
streets just called restaurant rows
you can get everything here from, a very spicy Indian meal to, the favorite barbecue just anything your little hearts desires around here,
here they have to entertain us to make us come back.
I guess it's all one big game because just never run out of places to go,
you really don't.
That's good.
I never really thought about that,
a good turn over would be sort of nice.
Course if you find a place you like and it works out that no one else likes it, it would be sort of sad to see it go under.
we go to, an older part of town
we just notice how many,
that restaurant's changed,
gee, there, they've changed
we've got to go try that one,
you have the pick of crop here.
Are they big into down there
is it more like,
Texas to me makes
it seems like it would be portions would be the big thing.
fourteen ounce steak with your potato and stuff.
you can get that too.
they've got everything here from the, French Room which is ultra, ultra to, Dean (( Ferrings )) , restaurant which is the Mansion on Turtle Creek.
we've got beautiful places to go.
You can get as dressed up or, just going to the local barbecue and just doing take out.
. I guess, some of the foods that we really enjoy though are the, Chinese,
we're always searching around for Chinese.
now, of course, they've added the Taiwanese,
part of the country you want to hit, they have got it.
Vietnamese restaurant we went to, last week. It's great,
it's good stuff,
it's very, very mixed
I think if you like food like we do,
don't know if that happened before or after we moved here
you get a great variety of things here,
if you were going to a restaurant, where would you go?
a lot of favorites here, in Northern Virginia
of course we've got D C to call on,
there's all sorts of things down there.
One thing about D C is that there are a lot of traditional restaurants where, the guy used to be the cook for the Capitol
he stays in the same restaurant for twenty years,
he's got a big clientele
some hang outs where you can go if you want to see people.
sort of like Hollywood in a way because favorite haunts for Southerners and things like that.
we don't hang around with them, because usually it's, ninety dollars a plate or something silly like that.
right .
my wife has friend that runs one of the restaurants down there
we've been down there and had French cuisine,
I don't know,
I don't particularly care for that sort of thing, just type of food, just because I do like, getting a meal.
I see.
most French food always leaves me hungry for some reason.
don't know what they say about Chinese,
I'm always hungry after a French meal,
That's true too.
atmosphere is just wonderful.
You do feel like you've gone out, and done something,
To another place,
when you go to a French restaurant, or a restaurant downtown.
as out here you might have enjoyed the meal and go away feeling satisfied, it's not so much event, out in the suburbs when you go to a local restaurant.
starting to get a little bit different,
realizing that more of people with the money are coming out and living in the suburbs, getting away from the city
there are a couple jazz houses, that have jazz bands playing while you're eating and stuff like that,
there you go,
which is kind of nice, because,
we're sort of in the middle of, the extension of the Cajun country too, we have, a lot of ambiance provided by, bands and like you said jazz bands and things like that.
you go out
you eat your crawfish and
jambalaya and stuff.
really don't like that stuff
my husband does.
He loves to cook it
he and a friend of his get together
they cook, for a bunch of people
it's really,
in fact, we do a lot more entertaining I think at home than we do going out.
when we do go out we really, want to be wowed by, the presentation, so to speak.
there are little places,
like I said, some of our very favorites are the Chinese restaurants,
we do a lot of take out because everybody's so busy running around,
it's the fastest thing to do,
we sort of enjoy both parts because, *
We have very special places in Northern Virginia that people go to.
one's called Captain Pell's
huh. *
which is a crab house,
being so close to Maryland.
Maryland is, a big place for crabs bay pretty much taking over most of Maryland.
Captain Pell's is a place with the big huge wooden tables inside,
people just go in there and just pig out and everything.
the other place is called the Vienna Inn which is,
Vienna is a suburb of D C also in Virginia
that place is known for rudest waitresses in the country, at the Vienna Inn.
people go there to be abused.
Just to be abused, by the meanest waitress . *
you go in there to be abused waitresses and the bartenders and stuff.
that's a talent. *
people come all over the country amazed at, the abuse they were seized.
it's on the honor system.
You pay totally on the honor system.
you tell them what you've eaten and what you drank or whatever
they figure out the bill for you
you're lucky if you get change.
Usually take your change and throw you a couple of mints in your hand and say thanks,
Got to carry through with the abuse, huh.
carry on with the abuse,
they say you need mints,
here guy, you don't get any change,
that's funny,
just went to an Italian restaurant this,
just wonderful
it's like being in It ,
I've never been to Italy,
it's just this big beautiful Italian restaurant.
Very, low key in terms of the people are from California,
they have their own adaptation of what Italian is.
was a wonderful, wonderful experience.
You know they have, women there graduating in opera or something like that
they are all singing arias to you and,
and just walking around the restaurant singing
they make the food right there so it's display cooking
they have wine casks all over the place so you're lined up waiting in line to this place
you just take a drink of wine
they don't count that really,
they just,
you say you're going to buy a new car.
it's probably going to be a very old used one.
My husband had an accident in my car a little over a week ago,
I drove a nineteen seventy seven, B M W
I believe
I'll know the answer today,
that they're going to total it.
I think that it will cost more to fix it than it's probably worth.
I'm not interested in having any car payments,
I actually went last weekend with,
my father was in town
we went and looked at used cars around town.
found a nineteen eighty four Regency Ninety eight with only forty six thousand miles on it
that was pretty good condition,
I also found a nineteen eighty Volvo, station wagon
that was in just super condition.
there's not a dent on the outside body,
the inside is clean
it's had the same owner for years.
has about eighty thousand miles on it
that's all right,
the engine's in excellent shape,
I think it would last me probably another fifty or sixty thousand miles.
I guess I'm kind of in limbo waiting to see what the insurance company is going to do, to see whether or not I can get one of these cars.
I don't want a new car though,
a new car payment.
understand that.
We, just paid off one, my wife's car, I guess, early last year
we're, enjoying not having payment month
it's getting up in age,
we're trying to hold out a little while longer,
we've got a daughter who's almost two now,
we're getting to the point where we really kind of need something a little bigger than what we've got,
I guess do buy another car be something that we can, kind of grow into a little bit.
tough on trips because,
getting ready to go anywhere to put a puzzle together to make sure you get everything in the car, cause it's,
not only that, needing the room, we finally ended up buying a Dodge Caravan here about two and a half years ago,
because I too, have very small kids.
have one that's now,
she'll be four in September and then a little boy that's just turned two.
it's like you go on a trip
you pull over to the side of the road, throw them on the hood, change a diaper and keep going .
I wanted something that I could maybe walk through and get to them
that's what,
ideally, I would like that, in fact, I've thought of that possibly, getti ,
I don't know that my wife would go for it,
like to do that.
have a truck myself
I'll take,
a truck's a thing that you need when you need it,
the rest of the time you wonder, could I use something else.
still got a couple years payments on it.
I may,
if we can hold out til then, I may to where I need a something else, buy a van, because they are, really, really nice long trips especially.
We have definitely put a lot of use in on ours
I understand, it is too expensive to have two car payments.
that was the problem, my B M W was paid for,
my husband's been in business for himself for several years
he can depreciate cars,
you hav ,
used to be you kept them three years.
when they did all the tax law changes you had to keep them five.
I was trying to keep my B M W in tact, for three more years.
So that then I could take the van,
we'd trade my car in on a new car for his business.
basically that's what I'm looking for in a used car. Something that's going to last me at least three years.
if I can pull a deal on this Volvo, it will last me longer than that.
It will actually last me quite a while,
I don't know how families afford two new car payments.
It's just,
I don't either.
it's outrageous.
my wife's car is probably around five years old now,
I guess it must have seventy or eighty thousand miles on it,
it's in bad shape
she's kept it up real well,
getting to the point where we really need to do something with it,
if we're going to get anything out of selling it.
That's right.
I'm, I'm hoping we that we can work something out here.
We've got other bills that kind of or us buying,
Know how that goes .
something, buying something else.
It's the pits,
isn't it? .
It really is
afford, car payment now.
It just,
That's right .
will wipe you out every month,
it's almost getting to be like the house payment,
I know,
you can't find what you used to,
could find something for, seventy five, a hundred dollars a month.
It might not be brand new
it was a decent car,
you just almost can't find that payment anymore.
I understand that, kind of hard to go do.
if you do look at them, I really recommend the Dodge Caravan.
We've had wonderful,
it's the only, minivan they make that's on a car chassis instead of a truck chassis so it doesn't,
shake you around like does.
I didn't know that.
we have had just wonderful luck with ours.
take it everywhere,
it, it's so easy to get the kids in and out,
my car was also a two door.
which drove me nuts trying to get car seats and kids,
into a back seat,
it's wonderful to have the room and the space
you can haul things
they climb in easily
it's just been everything that we were hoping it would do for us.
it is nice on long trips.
In fact, Christmas we drove to California, which is my home,
you can take out the middle seat,
they come out fairly easily, so we took out the middle seat, put the car seats in the back and just had a whole area in the middle, like if we were out on open road
it was their nap time,
we just went ahead and laid them down.
I wouldn't do that if we were in a city, or, if there were a lot of cars around or anything.
it made it so much easier to travel.
n ,
our daughter's problem, 'cause get out on the road like that it's just long stretches, where they just have to sit,
In town she does okay,
even on the road she does all right for a little while because she'll sleep some,
i ,
wakes up,
she wants get up.
I know, Chris , right before Christmas we had driven over to Shreveport
we were driving back
it was when all that bad weather hitting,
the roads were all closed,
we were trying to get back
it took us a lot longer
pretty good most of the way,
then, get to a point where she just had to get out of her seat and we had to stop,
it's a long time.
we got out and played in the snow and put here back in *
she was fine,
something to where she could kind of get up and move around, like you say the highway, or where, where it wasn't,
wasn't as bad, just for a little brief period of time, it okay,
thinking maybe we do something like that later on.
Ye ,
that would be good.
we'll see what we can do.
That would be good.
I gue ,
I appreciate talking to you.
Good luck in your car buying.
Y ,
you too,
I ho ,
(( )) .
hope everything works out.
really I'm supposed to hear today
hope it,
I really would prefer the Volvo, I think,
I know it's older than the Regency
they're built of that unibody steel construction
it would take a hit fairly well,
Right .
my B M W that my husband was going forty to forty five miles an hour
it didn't even bend the frame.
It bent in the bumper and the quarter panel,
unfortunately they think if it says B M W on it that you have money.
They don't know,
what are your favorite things to watch?
let's see,
have enjoyed, THIRTYSOMETHING
in the past, now that it has gone off .
some comedy shows, I think of, off hand,
are your,
what is,
We do not watch a lot of T V,
we try to watch it on Thursday nights,
we usually watch L A LAW,
I like that real well.
And CHEERS
we like to watch that.
we sort of got hooked on LA LAW.
do you ever watch that?
(( )) yeah,
try to catch that nights.
. have watched THIRTYSOMETHING some in the last couple seasons.
I was sort of sorry to see it go
was kind of interesting, some people complained about, the kind of whining or whatever on it.
really did not think was,
that way.
I think it had situations that it presented.
I thought a lot of the,
the problems that Michael and Hope had in their marriage and stuff, I can relate to some of those things.
Just the dynamics of it and everything.
a lot of people, kind of felt that way,
they had a lot of, counseling groups that use some of the episodes as,
as examples of things that were going on
that they (( called )) interaction between people and (( sort of )) to use as, as a way of getting people to talk about their problems,
and that sort of thing .
we kind of,
(( )) our T V viewing has, slowed down a little bit since daughter came along,
tends to, put a cramp in your viewing, because by the time you get through getting her ready for bed and everything, it's, very little T V time left.
you are too tired
to do anything.
it's better to spend time with your kids, than glued in front of the T V anyway.
that's right.
Probably more worthwhile.
think there's as many good things to watch as there used to be, really.
can not, *
I don't think there were,
there are not as many good shows continuously like to watch as much as I used to .
used to be able to name ten shows or so, that I felt were worth my time to watch,
I (( )) very seldom like to watch (( )) those,
there's a couple now that I tend to want to watch.
I like, home improvement shows like Bob Vela's, HOME AGAIN on Saturday morning,
THIS OLD HOUSE,
(( yeah
)) on
instead of being on it's on regular T V.
kind of interesting because they renovate an old house
I have seen parts of that before,
it is interesting.
I like to watch that
things on P B S I like to watch
Do you watch sports much on T V?
a team or something that I am really interested in I am not one to just watch a football game to be watching it
I am not a big basketball or baseball fan, baseball, a team I really like, I may watch
baseball to me is a little hard to watch on T V,
for an extended period.
It's slow.
it's so slow that you just get bored,
will switch between something else a baseball game going back and forth, watching it.
I usually,
if it's a football team I really like, (( )) a college team pro team that I am fond of, I usually will sit and watch that.
that's the ,
we are like that
occasionally we will, if we do not have anything to do or kind of bored and we just want to sit in the house or something,
we will watch a little bit of a golf tournament.
you can not take a whole lot of that either,
it's pretty slow.
it's kind of like,
like baseball .
Do you wa ,
we went to the movies a lot on weekends and watch them at home, because there's just,
on Friday and Saturday nights there's nothing good on
I think that that's what more people are doing
I think that's,
T V,
I think the less good shows being on T V has caused a lot of people that, get more movies and watch.
I know have done that too in the past,
we do not do it quite as much now, cause our baby will not let us watch them.
used to rent, two or three movies on a weekend try to watch.
Do you have cable T V?
We do not either.
we live in,
I thought we were the only ones ,
who did not have it.
the, development we moved into was,
they have it on one si , right across the street from us,
when they built our section it in
we have been there about two years now.
they do not have it
I am hoping soon
I have contacted them about this
they say that
they look,
look at, different areas and try to determine the most houses will be,
when we reach a certain number of people in that area they will put one in, put,
some in, they will at,
least consider it,
we had it for awhile
it just seemed like we never watched it
(( )) we did not have the movie channels,
we just had all the normal ones,
that come
we just never watched any of them,
we kept a log for a month of every time we watched it
it seemed like we did not watch even half an hour,
we decided to just cancel it.
It does improve the reception a little bit though,
that's the only thing.
an antenna, a really good antenna
it's really helped, ours
it's not been too bad.
I have not really missed it that much,
there's certain things that I have, that I want to see, occasionally, like a football game, a college game or something that happens to be on cable, or some old movie,
have not been bothered by it too much.
I can not, think of too much else to say. *
Since we are not big watchers.
it was nice talking to you.
we are to discuss air pollution and, what we think the causes are.
I probably would, target,
industry as being number one polluter.
that's probably a major one.
I think, individually, just by the vast number of people there are, I think cars are also a major contributor to it.
vehicles .
there's a lot of commercial vehicles out there,
especially the big rigs like the busses and,
the big,
(( Huh )) .
eighteen wheelers and so forth.
I think enough for three cars.
that's not,
I think it can be resolved they really let go with,
. Just a minute, I'm on the phone .
the technology that they have their hand,
they haven't released it yet.
I think there's a lot of hold back, because,
of, priorities that they have,
(( it )) ,
You have some children.
. Yes .
five in the kitchen at the moment.
You need to shut the door, please.
Shut the door right now.
We have the air conditioner running.
What do you need?
. Hurry.
I'm on the phone .
you may.
they keep turning the tape recorder up besides .
okay .
watch children
do you,
I have three of my own
I have, two that I'm tending for the summer.
Off and on,
that's interesting.
is there anything,
They cause more noise pollution than air pollution .
temporarily they do.
That's right,
that's right.
Then we get out of that phase,
soon enough.
I think another,
you can tell when you go around cities, you can smell specific things specific industries.
I remember being,
grew up in New Jersey
I can remember the smell of Newark vividly .
it's the type of industry, which obviously if you can smell it, it's in the air.
I know, in Michigan, the way they used to take care of the trash is they would incinerate it,
the fumes from the incineration was a terrible pollutant to the air.
of course, now,
people think you burn it, it's gone,
it's not gone.
when they,
you bury it
it's not gone either, because it has untold ramifications.
Then it just gets into the soil and into the water .
it gets people,
which is, most important, resource that we have is people,
destroying us,
really are.
We really have to do more,
I think the cockroach will evolve, .
So they say .
I think we've got to do more with the recycling.
really glad to see that there's more of that happening.
there's not enough.
we need expert cooperation.
it's a,
we're getting,
at least they're starting,
Education of the,
at least they're moving that direction.
Education of the people is primary, I would think.
we're hard to teach.
We are hard to teach.
be a generation or two before,
before it's really going,
very well, because now the adults are more aware of it,
the children are being taught in the schools it'll be, on down the road this is going to be passed on, which is good.
of course, we would like to see it accelerated because, of the critical nature of it.
learning of it and the,
just to, think that way, we have to be in that thought pattern and able to, motivate ourselves to, do what is right for the atmosphere.
I think we're all contributors.
every human being that lives is a contributor,
to pollution,
we just
I think you're right,
education is a big thing
as we educate them individually what they can do, people become more aware of the things in industry too are causing problems
I think that towards solving those problems more too.
hopefully it can be resolved within a shorter time frame than we have seen it done in the past.
That the time frame for cleaning up our air land, which, we get our nutrients from.
everything goes back to the land.
. Just a minute and I'll turn it up.
I'll turn it up in a minute, when I'm done .
it's just, very critical, I think at this point to,
get that through to the people and get us educated.
I think science has come a long way to making it so that it's possible to find ways to solve the problem .
don't know if they offer classes grade school,
I think they teach it a lot in science .
In science,
I would think that that's where it would come through.
What grade level would that be?
Would that be, perhaps,
the first grade level, which would be,
I think they're kind of getting it in all different grades.
are they starting, though, with the children that are so,
their little minds are like sponges
they can really ,
relate to that.
I think they are starting probably in the first grade.
hearing somewhat about it.
I know, Target has their program to make kids more aware of it
Target stores?
stands usually where they have, newspaper thing
that the kids can read
I see.
they can form group to,
help fight the pollution.
that's wonderful.
I'm sure that, perhaps they're the leaders,
pick up on their example and carry it, further.
thoughts are,
know problem to solve because McDonald's has changed back and forth between paper and foam and that kind of thing,
they do all these studies on which ones pollute more,
there's the paper and plastic bag question.
I guess we're supposed to talk about music.
let me go ahead and push one here.
do you ha ,
are you a musician yourself?
I sing.
I don't play an instrument.
do you sing a choir or a choral group?
not right now.
What kind of singing do you like to do?
pretty much anything.
have you, have you been singing a long time
have you studied?
A long time out, all through college and everything I was in the choirs.
I've had some classical vocal training.
you do that in, Texas, or somewhere else?
I was in Europe.
that's wonderful.
I likewise sang in high school and in college in choirs,
I didn't sing in a choral group, until after I was, married,
I sang in a couple of, community choirs, and then waited for a while,
now sung in a church choir here,
in Texas.
(( just )) the chorals singing a lot,
as well.
are you a soprano, alto, or,
A soprano.
Yeah, so am I.
Do you,
what kind of music do you like to sing?
you were saying you had classical training.
Do you have a particular composer that you like or,
a particular (( type )) ?
as far as opera goes, I'm, I think most fond of Verdi.
I've been listening to, advertisements for MADAM BUTTERFLY,
I'm wondering have ever done anything like that,
have you ever done any, if,
if you had done MADAM BUTTERFLY.
I haven't done,
I'd love to,
that's, Puccini, I think,
MADAM BUTTERFLY was,
in Dallas,
it's been two or three years ago now,
I went to see that,
it was really wonderful.
It was particularly well,
the acting was particularly nice, I thought,
it was quite popular.
you don't play, an instrument
have you ever wanted to, guitar or piano or ,
I think it would be nice if I played the piano.
always a good instrument for anybody who sings or does, some other kind of instrument,
I think piano is always good background,
I played piano I guess from the time I was until I graduated from college,
I was a piano teacher for a while while my husband was in graduate school,
that was the instrument both of my children started on,
neither of them stayed with it .
One of them, turned into a violist,
the other one guitar percussion,
think that the piano background is very, useful,
I'm sure that would have been great to be able to accompany yourself,
just for practicing and so on.
Do you have any other kind of music that you like?
I like to listen to all different kinds of music.
I have a,
I used to work with a fellow who had,
although this was a computer company, he had his, P H D in musical, I guess it was in composition, from University of North Texas,
when I would go into his,
his office every now and then, you never knew what kind of music he'd be playing on the radio .
It may be country,
it might be classical,
it might be rock,
it was just, he said just about what you said, that he just liked all kinds of music.
neat me to hear that somebody is,
There's, some of the really totally country stuff, I don't really particularly like
do you have any plans to, do anything with your music in the near future
I wish I could
don't really know how to go about it without having a degree
I know that there are, if you're interested in choral singing,
I'm not sure where,
you are in Texas,
I do know that some communities have,
community choruses
that's often a good way to get back into it again.
it's not terribly demanding.
You might have to audition,
that probably wouldn't be a problem,
there usually,
that they take tours and things like that
you get to know
people socially as well in a musical setting,
that's always fun.
I think one reason why I have enjoyed my choir so much, is that not only do we sing wonderful music,
we've gotten to know each other quite well, on social level,
I think we sing better because of that.
I think,
That's good.
I think we sing more like, people who trust each other ,
which is really nice.
whereabouts in,
Texas are you, if I could ask?
I'm in Flower Mound.
Flower Mound,
I'm in Plano,
we're just not too far apart,
that's pretty close.
It was funny,
I talk to people all over, Texas, of the state,
I'm always asking in the state, the person is from if they're in Texas.
you have a family?
I'm married.
I was wondering spouse,
you had, other musical people in your family.
I'm sorry?
if you have other people in your family who are also musical.
a little bit.
Do you come by it naturally?
parents that musical?
I think so.
That often is the case,
sometimes it will skip.
Like my husband is not musical at all,
his mother is very musical,
his children are very musical,
you never know where the talent is going to show up, I guess, sometimes.
I'm not sure how long we've talked.
I think,
I attention clock.
I'll bet at least five minutes.
Probably .
I've enjoyed talking with you,
maybe we'll talk again.
All right,
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
we're supposed to talk about music?
did you check music?
Why did I pick music?
I know a little bit about music,
I thought that I would put that,
like, to listen to music.
What kind of music do you enjoy?
I really enjoy the oldies,
is what I really listen to most of the time.
Like kind of oldies?
Like the fifties oldies, or older oldies?
Usually in the fifties.
I'm not really sure,
I think a fifties, sixties, and seventies station that I listen to.
They have the same kind of station down here,
when I listen to music most of the time that's what I listen to.
I don't know a lot of the, musicians' names or the singers' names,
I know a lot of the old songs.
we just got a disk the other day that was a, disk of King Cole's greatest hits
it is excellent.
about twenty of his greatest hits on it.
It's really an excellent, excellent C D.
really quite pleased with it.
It was good.
have you King Cole?
I have.
do you play any musical instruments or anything.
I played the accordion for seven years
Really. *
I played the clarinet for seven years also.
the same time, or, *
I played the accordion until I got into about sixth or seventh grade,
in fourth grade I started the clarinet,
I played that all through high school.
you're in the marching band and stuff in high school.
I was,
played the baritone horn
in high school band and in college.
my wife played flute in high school.
in concert band I played the bass clarinet.
that's exactly the same thing my ex wife did .
She played the clarinet
she played bass clarinet during concert band.
I like the low notes better than the high notes.
We didn't have any bass clarinet players
I asked him if I could play it, because I was first clarinet,
they end up playing a lot of the high notes,
care for the sound of the high notes.
I asked him if I could play the bass clarinet,
he said, Sure,
he didn't have anyone to play it.
I played it,
I really enjoyed it.
I like it,
like the low instruments better, too.
listen to much live music?
Pardon me?
Do you listen to much live music, like concerts or things there?
I really don't go to very many concerts.
going to one here in a couple of weeks.
I don't know if you follow Broadway, much,
Michael Crawford was in PHANTOM OF THE OPERA on Broadway.
you know whom I'm talking about?
he's coming to Dallas on the twenty ninth,
we got a big group going down to hear him sing a bunch of, Andrew Lloyd Webber's music.
that'll be good.
My sons are kind of into Broadway.
my, my older son is at Columbia in New York City,
he's been to see PHANTOM, and LES MISERABLES and bunch of other things up there,
I would love to be able to go see LES MISERABLES.
he does it,
he can go if they get sixteen dollar tickets
my gosh.
to that thing,
one of the,
the last time they went up, a friend of his wanted to go,
Chris didn't want to go,
the friend David went,
he went and bought one of the low priced student tickets,
gave him the seat that normally belongs to John Bel John .
It's his house seat.
That's under his control,
he said it was a great seat.
Holy smoke.
been to, they've been to see it several times.
I would love to go see that, and CATS
CHORUS LINE
I would love to be able to go see those.
Would they,
any of those ever come to Pittsburgh?
They do,
I work,
I had just gotten,
I just graduated from college in May,
I really didn't have the chance or the money to go see them.
we're kind of,
I saw road shows of LES MIS ,
they were both excellent.
if it comes to Pittsburgh in the road shows, and I think they have three different companies that tour the U S, you should go see it, because outstanding.
My brother doesn't even like that kind of stuff,
he went to New York,
a bunch of,
there was twenty students from high school that went,
he went to New York with them,
he saw it,
he said it was the best thing he'd ever seen
he doesn't even like that type of stuff.
I think it's just incredible.
those, two guys who wrote LES MIS wrote a new show call MISS SAIGON .
it just opened in New York this spring,
my son and his friend were in a lottery to get tickets to it,
they got tickets for the opening night.
they went to it,
they said great, it was great.
I like that type of stuff.
my fiancee doesn't really like it.
He's more into the New Wave music,
like Depressed Mode,
I guess, I don't know either,
I don't too much,
my younger son listens to some of that kind of stuff.
I don't know,
really weird names, The Dead Milkman,
I don't know.
it's really weird stuff, he likes,
I thought, my gosh, (( )) .
he listens to New Wave
you listen to the oldies.
That's kind
of different.
that's good though,
It's good to cover all the bases there.
listen to anything basically, except I don't like the real hard metal rock.
I just refuse to listen to that at all.
I'll even listen to country.
some country.
listen to much country,
we just,
at the same night we bought that Nat King Cole album, we bought Garth Brooks' album, No Fences.
That is excellent.
Do you like Randy Travis?
we, I've listened.
probably heard him,
I've never bought any of his music.
Garth Brooks is probably the only country album we have,
my wife bought an album of Hank Williams' greatest hits.
Hank Williams Junior?
this is Hank Williams
these are a bunch of old recordings.
She bought that the same night we bought the Nat King Cole and the Garth Brooks.
those should be good albums.
It is pretty good.
She likes it.
If you have the chance,
too country for me,
it's a little too, ronky tonk or something.
the Garth Brooks album a lot.
It's pretty good,
it's pretty good.
I don't know,
maybe you wouldn't like Randy Travis.
He's really country himself
I really enjoy listening to his music.
do you think is the best?
I don't know.
If I were you, I would get the Greatest Hits album
if he had one, because that would have a mixture of all his, top songs on it.
we have, four records of his.
I can't, name the names of them off hand
we have, all his records so far,
all my brothers and sisters listen to them, even the ones that like the heavy metal
they really enjoy listening to him,
maybe if you did like Hank Williams and Garth, maybe you would enjoy
think we'll probably get of his albums, because we do kind of like it,
it's kind of different.
it's good.
do you know any,
I was going to say do you know any other country singers that you would, the women, do you like the (( )) ,
we do like the (( )) ,
in fact we have a (( )) album ...
Now then I think that
are you there?
I'm here.
All right.
Do you have any one that has been in a nursing home?
only grandmother, but for a very short time.
was just more or less nursing home for, recovery from a broken hip
because she could receive more medical attention.
physical therapy was there and whatever,
I think, in visiting her there, it was very obvious to see that a lot of the people in the nursing home that she was in, weren't there mentally.
she was probably the only person in the, whole nursing home that, still had all of her mental facilities about her.
very disheartening.
what do you think can be done about that?
what can we do,
it's really hard, I guess.
come from a family take care of your elders, I guess.
dad's mother is an invalid,
she lives with my aunt and uncle,
they care for her, all around the clock.
Though have to receive constant medical attention, just unable to get out of bed.
I guess, there's that family commitment.
I know that is trying to let my grandmother stay in her house as long as she can.
I can remembe ,
of course I'm
old enough to remember when the family or the church took care of all of this.
We did not have to call someone else,
I feel,
you tell me how you feel about,
probably, I think, as long as the person's able understand what's going on around them
I think, my grandmother right now is still able to walk around,
she's still able do some things for herself, though she gets Meals On Wheels
which I think is a great thing, because, it saves people from having to prepare food for her, because you worry a little bit about her leaving a stove on, or whatever, although she does most things very well, it still makes a little bit easier for her.
Certainly d ,
I worked with an agency in West Texas really started this concept of Meals On Wheels
I think it's such a valuable thing for our elderly.
If they didn't have to, go into a kitchen
my mother expired a little over a year ago,
we had finally,
she didn't want to live with either my sister or me
found a retirement center for her,
it was beautiful
nursing care there.
as long as mother was,
mobile and
got her food,
she was with people with whom she enjoyed.
I think, it's really funny,
I have two grandmothers still alive,
my one grandmother says that she wants to stay in her house for as long as possible.
She's openly told people.
She's always been very good about knowing,
she's eighty nine,
she said that she would really like to stay in her house as long as possible, because it's her home.
when the time comes, can't do things
she has to be cared for, whatever, she would prefer, to move into some type of community where she has her own apartment, probably with a living space and a bedroom
Yes, sir.
with maybe a kitchenette, so that wants to fix herself something light, she can do that,
if she wants to go to a meal, she can go down the hallway, to a room where there's a cafeteria
there's other people there,
she can mix with them and talk with them and enjoy their company.
Being a widow
I find that eating alone is one of the hardest things
I have to do.
I have just recently retired,
I am finding it extremely hard to adjust to.
mother had the little kitchenette
she could do all these fine things that she just, a microwave, had to pop
her popcorn.
Now this is wonderful.
when it came time for a full meal, then mother was able to go with people
that probably, I think that they should be able to interact with other people
I think so.
in an environment that they choose, can afford it.
I know that my grandmother would like to stay in her house,
my parents actually said, that they may have to take their end, sometime, because, my grandma, she says who she wants to live with,
she's pretty,
she lets people know,
Okay, we're being recorded.
All right, Ron.
number one, I am one hundred percent for total gun control.
Total gun control.
I am not a member of the National Rifle Association
I don't believe in hunting,
I just have had my fill of what is going on with the crime rate
I really feel that we have to do something in order (( )) ,
agree something should be done,
I don't believe there is any way of total control over weapons, because crooks and people who are going to perform things that are not correct will have access to weapons from somewhere
that means they'll always have an advantage over us
they may even get worse because they know we have nothing to support myself.
Now, agree with a lot of the things you just said in your few moments because personally I used to be a great hunter
in the last few years I've said, no way.
Matter of fact, if I find a fly running around in the house, I pick him up and carry him outdoors .
don't even hit him with a flyswatter,
I've, gotten over this business of wanting to go out and shooting killing and that sort of thing.
think we do need some weapons available to most of the people.
Most of the people really are, honest and, worthy of carrying on their lives properly.
I'm sort of in line thinking in terms,
I don't see anything wrong with this five day waiting period if the waiting period is utilized to really look at the background of the person purchasing the weapon.
there's nothing wrong with that.
Do you see anything wrong with that?
there's only one problem I have with the whole thing though, is, when they do it, I think our biggest problem is, crooks and what have you are going to get weapons if the weapons are available.
I think the biggest problem we have in this country is there are just entirely too many weapons available. the types of the weapons.
there is
this, automatic and semiautomatic stuff.
there is,
I don't think we should have access to those.
There is no reason for it.
when people say, my God, cutting into my civil liberties and all this, I take a different stand that as long as they are available and they are so readily accessed out there, then something is taken away from my civil liberties. *
Huh .
maybe I'm a little bit strong when I said total gun control.
really not what I meant.
we need control.
We've got to be able to get a handle on what is happening
we've got to reduce the number of weapons that are out
in the public.
people should be, selected so that we know that they are all right and that not, acquiring weapons for illicit use.
that is not good.
There's nothing wrong with a person that enjoys the mechanisms.
As a matter of fact, there's a fellow out there working on my house right now who, brought to me a target from a rifle that he, pretty halfway designed
put together the, the bullets in it
he was showing me that at a hundred yards, he kept five shots within a quarter of an inch of each other at one hundred yards.
from a technical point of view, that is something our military people need to know about.
there are other interesting, facets guns and weapons.
This is a, bolt action rifle, I think he has.
he has done other things to the way the, barrel sits in wood part of it.
he designed the bullets themselves
he has fantastic accuracy.
from a technical point of view, that interests me. Not to kill anybody with it or anything with it, but just the fact that a piece of mechanism like that could be made to be so accurate.
All right,
sound like you're into the technology of it, which is,
I agree.
again, entire family all hunters
don't appreciate my stand,
I have no, I really have no problem with sports hunters.
I really don't.
It's just when they come out and they say they need an Uzi in order to do some accurate or decent deer hunting, that's totally outrageous.
What's happening is people are losing,
they seem to be losing their common sense over the issue.
the issue,
is, the issue is becoming the focus and not what is actually happening with guns.
think something will happen.
Beverly, what do you think about drug testing?
I think in some professions it's, essential. Things like pilots and things that involve the safety of other people particularly.
got a lot of mistakes here, in the Maryland, Baltimore area because of, train conductors
on drugs.
I think we've had two terrible accidents here recently,
also on, just like, I bet you within five days the driver was, high on marijuana,
I guess he smoked marijuana for lunch and, drove his truck up the back of two small cars in a tunnel that goes underneath a river that leads into the Chesapeake Bay
my goodness,
it would,
that tied up traffic for a long time,
everybody died,
the fire was terrible,
it was awful.
I think you're right,
I, I think in a field,
then who would test all truck drivers
is a problem
and every time before they get into a vehicle
looking at athletes being drug tested
I don't know,
I think the random drug testing, I don't know in my own mind if it has reduced the athletes from taking drugs, because they're still being caught
that make sense?
it may make a difference for some of them
I think,
because they don't want to lose that lucrative,
I think, in the long run I think would be good.
I think in the short run they think because so many of those tested have gotten away with it
test hasn't come down hard on anyone
however, here in Dallas
we had player, Roy Tarpley on the Mavericks team
he had been suspended a couple of times because of drug testing,
he was on probation,
he was to the point that if he was caught another time that he would lose his contract,
they wouldn't have to pay him,
the Mavericks wanted to get rid of him,
they couldn't afford to replace him and still pay his contract
just recently he was, missing from practice
whenever he missed like that, usually he had some kind of problem
a mandatory drug test was done
was positive,
they were able to
Get rid of him.
get rid of him and not have to pay his contract.
B ,
in his case, he lost his whole career,
he's been in the paper, in jail,
it's just been awful
talk about a terrible role model,
think, that, a terrible thi ,
it's really funny though,
I guess, my dad was hit by drunk driver who was also high
when I was probably eighteen, my senior year in high school
my goodness.
though he's alive today and everything worked out fine, it happened about two blocks from the high school
a friend came and got me,
I was there,
I could smell the dope,
I could see the beer cans from the guy that hit him
nothing ever happened,
that's terrible.
from that point on, I became so anti drunk driving
now I think people should be allowed to drink, I think that's an adult responsibility, whatever,
I really,
I'm so anti drunk driving,
drugs have, long lasting effects
I guess when I younger I was, probably a little more liberal on the subject.
I think most of us are.
soon as that happened,
I guess when I was eighteen years old, if you'd have asked me, I'd have thought it was fine
by the time I was nineteen my opinion had totally changed.
if you know someone,
for example we have, some friends whose son was driving home from work, was hit head on by a drunk driver
the drunk and his wife in the car were killed,
Bobby missed his whole junior year of high school
he went through surgery after surgery
Traction and all that terrible stuff.
for a long time they didn't even know whether he'd be normal again.
as far as his he's lost all of that.
He, has been tutored,
he'll catch up in school and everything,
he's still not back where he was.
I don't think somebody,
He may never have all those motor skills back.
you don't have the right to interfere in somebody else's life.
ruin somebody's life.
You don't have the right to interfere in somebody's life.
Another thing that we saw here recently. our high school kids were out goofing around in a park area that train track ran through
one boy who had been drinking decided for some stupid reason to try to play with the train.
the train missed him,
hit him in the head
he was in a coma for
four months,
he's out of the coma now,
eventually they think he will come back,
you don't know that,
he's lost,
he was an outstanding football player,
what kind of a house do you live in?
I'm ranch.
it was about, sixteen hundred square feet when I bought it,
it's about two thousand square feet now,
it's one of those typical, ranches that you find around here.
it's, late fifties
it's not, what you would find, where you live.
for the older, ranch homes it's pretty typical I guess.
our home is, one of the lower income homes out here.
most of homes that they're building,
I shouldn't say all of them,
most of them now are up in the millions of dollars.
How many square feet do you have?
We have got about, hundred.
Four bedrooms?
we've got five bedrooms,
Five bedrooms.
because we built onto our garage.
bedroom for my mother,
made a fourth bedroom living room and then added what we call a sunroom
to get the,
we added four hundred square feet to our house
that's great.
so that,
house is very comfortable.
We've got two living areas
the thing I probably like the most about it.
How many stories?
Just one?
It's just one story.
It's a Fox and Jacobs home.
How are they built?
we've been real happy with it.
I've heard that,
I've heard the construction is pretty good on Fox and Jacobs.
Of course, I'm not a carpenter or anything like that.
They could probably come in and say, this is not straight
this is under something
it doesn't give you trouble?
we haven't had a lot of problems with it at all.
No cracked slab or anything like that?
All right.
We've been real lucky.
is it, a natural gas and,
You know what I miss though?
wish they could build basements in homes in Texas.
heard a lot of people say that.
That's for sure.
we have an attic that we've just put, plywood the beams and things up in the attic
has replaced it to some extent
certainly not,
Can you stand up in it?
in parts.
use it for a room.
you have a probably a more pitched roof than is typical around here.
Th ,
ours is pitched so shallow that you, don't get much room in the attic.
I'll store all our Christmas stuff and whatever else junk up there.
five bedrooms and
Two living areas.
We have a living room and dining room at the front of the house,
we have the, family room, kitchen, and playroom
at the rear of the house which has been really nice.
In fact, I really enjoy the playroom
would think that would not be a real bonus, to a house,
of all the rooms in the house I'd say the one that's been really nice to have .
Isn't it funny how families end up living in one room in the house most of the time.
I think that's true.
You c ,
Probably our family room is biggest.
Some people,
families seem to migrate towards room and carry on most of their activities there,
we have one room that we never use.
might as well not even heat and cool it.
that's kind of the way our living room and dining room is,
it is nice to have it because with our size of family it's nice to know that there's one that's always straight and clean if you have someone come
just on the spur of the moment.
you've been fairly happy with it.
How long have you been in it?
Seventeen years.
it doesn't seem that long
it is because we, came to this area about the same time .
We've been years house that we're living in.
principal feature I like about ours is that it's pier and beam.
Yours is a slab I assume.
it is.
ours is a pier and beam which has allowed me to go under it and do a whole lot of different things that I could not have done if it was slab.
I've done a lot of electrical and plumbing and other work by myself and saved a lot of money that I couldn't have done if the house was on a slab.
that's interesting.
that's because it's so old.
It's thirty five, thirty six years old when they used to build like that,
my husband wouldn't do that anyway.
I know,
he's not a handy,
right? .
worst thing in life is to have to repair something.
I, on the other hand,
do a lot too much of it
I've gotten good at it which way is bad because then start to take pleasure in it .
that's great.
We just kind of save everything when his Dad comes to visit
he does all the repairing,
he does ,
My Dad is actually,
All right.
I guess tonight's subject is to discuss current events and how we keep up on current events, and if we're
satisfied the,
coverage that we receive.
thinking about it, some of the ways I try and keep up on current events is, I enjoy reading the newspaper, but, quite often don't have time to read all of the newspaper,
I enjoy watching some of the T V highlights and also, some of the news periodicals, weekly magazines,
at work I also have, management summary reports that, give basically a lot of the current events.
how about yourself?
I'm like you.
I like to read the paper
I basically don't do it every day,
usually watch, either GOOD MORNING, AMERICA or the TODAY SHOW, every morning
while I'm,
whatever I'm doing, I watch that.
I usually watch the news, either at, early evening or at ten o'clock
I get it from T V a lot.
that's one I read pretty regularly.
You think that that's, pretty adequate coverage
you get.
The thing about it, now that I've is that we get such good coverage on T V, or at least such, attempted thoroughness
of coverage, by the time you get the TIME
there's nothing in it you don't know.
It's historic events, huh.
Then you can just sort of have pictures to go along with it or something, because I've thought lately, there's nothing new in the TIME MAGAZINE.
basically you've heard everything
get a little more thorough, account of something,
really, I don't know.
I get most of mine from television
I would say.
I found out too, that, quite often if I see something on television that I want more in depth, understanding want to know more about it, that newspaper or, NEWSWEEK, can give you a better and more thorough coverage of what I've heard on T V,
I found out that also T V that you can scan through a whole lot of different things on C N N
like you said, news shows happening,
you can read some more about it if you want to.
I found out, though that,
I feel that a lot of the stuff on T V and the newspapers is negative.
There's an awful lot of negative news bad news.
it'd be refreshing once in a while to hear some good news.
think there's an attempt to do that.
I think people,
there's a mild attempt for that,
I think associate news with bad news
we do.
catastrophes or problems or crises,
I think our concept of news isn't necessarily events that happen.
It's more negative, like you said.
T V I think, they try to throw in good stuff,
sway the vote.
I've heard an comment also that, with budget cuts and, expenses the way they are that it's affected the news media, whereas before they would be able to have a in depth analysis or, investigative reporting, on certain topics and issues,
that takes time,
that takes an awful lot of money and commitment,
quite often it's a lot easier to listen to the police scanners or what they call ambulance chasing
and follow a fire department or a police officer, and, find out news from that as opposed to going out and finding good things,
I don't know,
I guess the economy effecting also the news media
we have to pay that price,
I don't know,
I don't know.
It's interesting,
I think that nowadays with communications the way they are also, that we can see global events happening they occur
all over the world, like the,
the war last winter was certainly a good example of that
We saw,
because we saw every single thing, practically.
twenty years ago, thirty years ago, we wouldn't have been able to have that privilege luxury view that.
I remember, just the things that are covered.
I remember watching the World Series during the earthquake,
and just seeing that happen
that was just so phenomenal to see this stadium shake
announcers, grabbing,
it's like, that was just something
because that was live and real
like you said,
of course, one thing I think, too, is with tele ,
Mike, I guess we'll be talking about painting recently.
Any kind of recent painting you've done, yourself?
Have you done any recently?
we, remodeled a bathroom.
which required, completely repainting the bathroom,
the other project we've done around here is, we've remodeled closets
quite a chore.
which required quite a bit of painting.
I imagine it did.
Did you have that done professionally
did you do that yourself?
we did it ourselves,
did it myself.
Did you enjoy that?
We just recently, had our boys' room,
our two oldest boys share a room,
the paint has, kind of faded and deteriorated,
we decided to paint their room and put up wallpaper and border and so forth,
looks quite good.
We were quite pleased with the result.
Is this a project you did yourself?
it's a project, that I did,
brought about the fading of the paint?
Just sun exposure?
I don't think it's sun exposure,
boys will be boys,
were crayon marks on there
we had scrub the crayon marks off, of course, try and get it clean.
Latex paint?
Pardon me?
it was.
It was latex paint,
that's, what we put back on there, was a latex paint.
they had bunk beds,
when he was younger, about three years old, nice marker and got up on the ceiling and decided to draw pictures .
On the ceiling?
on the ceiling.
you scrub and you scrub,
you can't it all off.
that's true.
that's one of the reasons why we painted,
use on the ceiling?
We used a flat, latex paint
in the bedroom, as I understand, that's, one of the better type of paints to have
because it's not so reflective glassy colored,
it, turned out real, real well.
Seems like, done some remodeling of some, rental houses that we have
it appears as though that, in the fifties or sixties when some of these houses were built, they used a lot of, semigloss type enamel for ceiling paints
that was a little difficult to cover with today's paints,
it seemed like.
We had an occasion, where we had to do some sealing
type of paint before we could paint it.
you had to prime it and
and cover over it.
You had pretty good luck with one coat type paint?
You use a particular brand or anything?
I like to use Sears, the ten year guarantee or the fifteen year guarantee.
Weather beater type stuff?
the reason being is once I painted, I don't want to have to go and do it another five or seven years later
we're quite satisfied with that
occasionally you can watch for it and get it on sale,
we that.
In fact, I was just reading an article,
you mentioned painting your bathroom.
I read an article recently that, you have to be very careful on the kind of paint you put on the ceiling in your bathroom because it does tend peel or come off because of the content in your
it's a lot like, wall paper.
That's true.
did you have any problems with that
the particular bathroom that we did is a half bath,
we didn't have a problem with that.
never experienced that type of a problem
with a latex paint.
have I .
problem with it.
pretty well refined today
a lot of the paints,
Sears is one of the better ones.
I've used, many a gallon of them, myself.
ever used an oil base paint?
used oil base paints for trim
around doors on doors, things like that.
do you use that?
kind of
primarily because seems to be a little more, let's say
It adheres better, or lasts longer?
not so much that.
It seems to hold up a little bit better towards the nicks and dings
as opposed to, a latex type paint.
it gives you variance even though it's the same color.
that's good,
that's good.
it's worked out pretty well for us.
have you ever done any painting outside?
quite a bit,
painted a couple of houses.
recently this summer we painted a, out building, which is a shed that we have on the,
where does she live?
on Rutherford.
I don't know that.
It's, corner of New York
just west of Mayfield.
It's, south and, okay,
that's kind of on the other side of town,
our kids probably never went to school together or anything .
little ones .
I've got one in college .
By now.
Let's see, we're on government,
whether we think it's honest or can be.
Whether it is possible to have an honest government. I'm beginning to think it's not.
What about you? .
don't think under the way the system is right now, it is.
I don't either.
even if people have good intentions, I think power corrupts or something to a certain extent,
The ultimate power, ultimately corrupts.
it seems like, maybe more of them come in with good intentions,
it's just so enticing,
(( a lot of )) corners being cut and the special deals available, because they're (( in on the know )) , .
I don't know if,
there is enough money that you could pay them just,
X amount of money to keep them honest.
you even see people on a small scale cheating when they have certain positions,
you know what I mean?
positions in your own home town, and they'll cheat somehow or, bend the rules, use their power.
maybe it's just man's nature .
a few years ago a major, corruption our county commissioners
there were several counties, including the one I was in, that lost every one of their county commissioners
my word.
it was to the point of not just losing their job, but going to jail.
What were they doing taking some,
they were taking kickbacks.
no .
Just a little here, a little there.
right .
Major amount here, a major amount there.
Right .
I think there was something like, thirty or forty commissioners that ended up going to jail.
We haven't had that big a scandal in Arlington,
we do have the people that work for the convention center were falsifying records.
In other words, they'd go out and have a big, lavish dinner and then put somebody's name down that they supposedly had entertained,
that person wasn't even anywhere near there,
Some of them weren't even in the same city.
One of them cancer and died
that was our biggest scandal for the last few years, I think.
small scale.
I don't know,
I really don't know what could be done.
either. to make it totally honest.
I think always going to be some way somebody can cut a corner,
However, the things that have on in the last couple of years, we can't afford too many of those, the
That's right.
the HUD mess or the S and L.
We could almost not afford such terrible corruption.
The cover ups and,
I think that, Reagan and Bush were up to their necks in that Iran Contra thing,
it kind of makes you feel bad that the top people in your country would be lying to you like that,
don't know.
like to believe that there is some way that our political people would really go there and look out for our interests.
I think that's what upsets me worse than, that they're getting a little, on the side
That's right,
they stay there,
it seems that when they get up there if I vote your way, what it'll do for me rather,
than this is the way my constituents want it.
this would be for the best for the nation overall.
You're right,
it's just a,
I don't know.
I guess that's where they stay
they try to stay in office.
they always please the money people too.
They need money so much, because they're constantly having to run,
for office again.
you think, if it was longer terms
then they would never have to try to please the people at home .
That's true.
it is a big problem,
I think most people are kind of depressed and cynical about government now,
don't you?
I don't think that has a lot of respect or faith in the government.
I know.
It's really terrible.
there was a time, where, I remember when I was real young, I just loved Harry Truman.
I thought he was great .
I had,
some of them seemed like kind of, heroic people.
I wonder if they really were,
or if we just really didn't,
Jerry, the topic was favorite T V shows, and what kind are you interested in, and
how they, and do they differ from mine.
the, commercial television these days, I'm just a little bit sick of.
in fact, I don't watch hardly any, television at all with, my other activities.
between my family and my church et cetera, et cetera,
to sit down and watch the news.
I do watch the Discover channel and some on channel thirteen
aside from
do you,
aside from that, I pretty well, turn it off.
I'm sort of a,
I'm different from that.
I'm sort of movie buff.
I go to a couple of a week, sometimes,
honestly self employed,
a lot of times I will, go out and take a lunch hour, go to lunch from twelve to two, go to a movie and just come back to my office.
I don't blame you.
I do it,
it's like entertainment,
I'm pretty much of junk movie watcher by myself.
If I take my wife, then we see something a little nicer,
my kids are all sort of movie watchers.
always been to a lot of, we've always gone to a lot of movies in our life.
I would just as soon, be doing something else,
it's just that my kids are gone now,
my wife's a school teacher
sometimes, she doesn't get home until about seven o'clock.
I'll come in five thirty or six,
I'll turn on the tube
set there and have my coffee or Coke or whatever and a little T V
sometimes I set there all evening.
sometimes it's real good,
than one evening that I've, caught, every animal show that evening on, on the Discover channel.
You bet,
you bet.
because they're, they're documentaries and they're.
that's an interesting channel.
you bet,
in fact I'm glad that it's part of our, basic cable package.
That's great.
just never spent any time watching it
I like my sports and everything
me too.
Hello .
Watch my Dallas Cowboys.
I watched them to halftime before I left
I left at halftime
they whooped up on them.
They sure did.
They just did an excellent job.
they're in the playoffs,
I'm not sure that the Eagles are not.
the Eagles
I did.
(( )) luck into it now, I think.
that's true.
Cowboys, they earned it on their own merit.
Did you know, everybody, or not everybody but quite a few of the folks were kind of down on Mister Johnson,
brought the pokes, from one and something team to, playoffs, in what, three years now.
You bet,
as much as everyone, used the word, love Tom Landry, I'm glad that Jimmy Johnson's there.
the time for the passing of the guard,
It was.
I think Tom knew it.
I think so too.
He wanted to go out a winner though.
I think he would have stayed there four or five more years until he could have gone out
that's true,
have blamed him one bit
he earned his stripes.
nobody remembers him as a loser
I know.
because he's far too much of a gentleman practicing Christian to,
to ever be thought of as anything
winner in anyone's book
I hope he's a winner in his own book, because
he is,
he is
that's the key there.
because he has to like himself
You bet.
before he can like other people.
Little things that disturb me,
I know he's being a little hardnosed about it
this ring of honor thing, he needs to be there
because he's earned it.
He deserves it,
he was the Dallas Cowboys,
he won't do that yet.
I hope he makes up his mind to do it, because
he will.
he needs to be remembered.
nobody's going to forget Tom Landry.
Shoot, come now .
Absolutely not .
That's true,
I'd not a
he needs to be honored,
let's put it that way.
you betcha.
I'm not a native Texan by birth
I guess if time I'm in the state now, is after you're here twenty years you're considered native.
You bet.
I've been here since seventy four,
I feel like a native.
let's see,
I came down March of sixty nine, went to work for T and I.
did you.
I haven't looked back yet either,
down from New York state in seventy four, and never had any regrets at all.
Especially looking at some of the weather New York state has had
You bet.
It's been.
look at the weather we have down here.
Huh .
It's a great place to raise our kids,
I've got my last kid graduating from college this next December
she's getting married the month before in November,
I will
with that.
we're finished with all but the last one, and trying to get him through his technical school
over halfway,
we're not staying on the topic of television shows,
I'm really not too concerned,
are you?
not at all.
me neither.
I'm enjoying the chat.
I enjoy my T V programs.
I like those,
I like those detective programs.
I like everything.
I can watch Bill Cosby because I think he has a great show.
Do you have, some strong feelings one way or the other the care of the elderly?
I do.
this is question that hit pretty close to home.
I had to go through this with my dad about four years ago.
he was adamant about two things.
One was that I take care of my mother,
and two, that he not be put into a home.
we talked, about some length,
I respected his wishes.
He, stayed at home as long as he could,
he died in a hospital.
I think that, my position that, you need to find one that you can really have confidence that they are taking care of their clients
because I've heard about the many abuses, and because he had heard of so many abuses, he just didn't want that.
How about you?
my graduate work is in speech pathology,
I've thought about this more than once, dealing with
I'm concerned, we're going to have a geriatric, population, twenty years it's going to be, phenomenal.
percent, isn't it.
I have been amazed
in talking with, some of my fellow students, it looks as though, nursing homes are not going to be the only option any more
in twenty years. where a lot of students are hoping, to work as an in the home type, approach, the, where there's, the speech therapist, or whether it's a nursing specialist or someone plans to, work out of a family's home and take the responsibility away from the family but yet allow loved one to stay, at home
with the family members.
difficult for many families, especially in the case Alzheimer's some of the more degenerative diseases to, at home, because then the family becomes completely,
They're captive.
you experience that father or not?
care somewhat what you're talking about.
We had the Visiting Nurses program
they sent somebody in,
was nominal charge that it started out that the lady would come in I think three times a week and eventually got up to the point where they were coming by every day.
They would try to get him to exercise.
They would try to,
they would check him over the basic checks.
Try to get him to talk and be motivated
that's what we went through.
up to a point things seemed to be working,
I think, became discouraged
they did not know how to take care of that,
at that point I think it's mostly a psychological problem.
I agree there's a lot of options.
There could be a lot of options.
I think it's time that, we decide to do something about it.
one of the other subjects on the switchboard, and this is one that I've been thinking applies here, young, young kids, graduating from high school, whether they should do a community service type work.
This would be an excellent example of where, the community could be more involved, more than just leaving it only to professionals.
There is a lot can do to, assist the lives of those who are keeping a loved one at home.
I suppose at one time the church would fulfill this need.
Possibly before.
I don't know now.
the church or synagogue, whatever
because typically these were close knit groups at one time,
in today's large metropolitan areas, or the rural areas now, people are not quite as close as they once were.
the mobility factor, the factor that, we're living longer and people are less trusting, all these things tend to destroy this type of system.
I agree with you,
there might be some possibilities there.
Although dealing with geriatrics is something a lot of young people just aren't emotionally prepared to do.
I agree.
good point.
I think they would have to have some training.
let's see.
Personal computers.
do you use them?
we own one.
What kind?
its an Emerson eighty eighty six, two low density floppy drives, and no hard drive yet.
comes in mighty handy.
Mostly for word processing type things?
a big chunk of it's word processing.
We're also taking programming classes,
there's a fair amount of programming getting done on it.
right now we got a project going where we're trying to put, all my wife's stray recipes on the disk.
Did you buy a program to handle menus?
it came with a menus program,
that doesn't,
basi ,
mostly kind of a pain in the neck without a hard drive
hopefully sometime this spring we'll be able to get one and get it configured.
Eighty eighty eight is what you said?
Eighty eighty six.
gosh, it's worth your time to just upgrade,
they're so darned cheap now.
impoverished college student.
This one went on a credit card,
we got a way out, while to pay it off yet.
it's, *
got one at home too.
It's a three eighty six, thirty three megahertz, forty, four meg ram and hundred and thirty meg drive
that's sounds nice. *
super V G A
it's fun.
I do programming, too.
My job is, E D P auditor,
I'm into computers all the time.
E D P.
Electronic Data Processing.
that sounds like fun job.
I really enjoy it,
it treats me well.
what are you studying in college
Computer engineering.
How nice.
computer engineering technology, which, all I can understand is it's a slightly more hands on version of computer engineering.
I've got a ways to go yet.
So far most of what I've done is getting, core classes out of the way,
taken some electronics classes, and one class with computer logic.
How they work is fascinating to me.
I enjoy it myself .
The, lab for that, computer logic class was a lot of fun.
Was it.
we got to hook up a few, counters and,
Hardware stuff,
What do you think of that fuzzy logic?
I've not had a chance to work with it, although, my, data structures teacher was telling us something about how logic works as far as the concept behind it.
how you'd implement that software wise or mechanically I don't know,
it sounds like a very impressive work.
they're pretty amazing.
I've written a couple of programs for, commercially,
it's a fun field.
In the fuzzy logic direction?
just regular,
you have to take into account, with any computer program all the type of things people can do to you to make your program crash or things you
normally don't consider.
Entering bad information of one sort or another
pushing keys certain times and,
messing up your files and things like that.
you're going to be an type.
program seems to be so far is just a broad based specialized from,
you get
you get hardware,
basic electronics courses that, deal with, not only the digital circuitry but, power supplies just the whole gambit, but mostly towards, computer electronics.
the idea is that, you can go in a variety of direction from C E T major,
more (( )) with the hardware than I do with the software,
I don't,
pretty much plan on, so far I'm planning to go in the engineering direction.
That's good,
got the topic, right?
where in Dallas are you?
I'm in Richardson.
you there?
Richardson a newspaper pick up once a week supposedly, if it's not raining.
they also have a couple of areas where you can take, cans, plastic and paper, to, dump them off there if you don't, want to wait and have a pick up, least of paper,
they don't pick up the other items.
They don't pick up cans or the
Are they going to later,
do you know?
I'm not sure.
They only started to do the newspaper , late last year.
Just kind of like a trial basis.
And see how it goes, so I don't know if they're going to pick up the other things.
What about you?
in Dallas proper
in the city of Dallas
I know they do have, a pilot program going on
it's not here.
they're not picking up anything .
collect everything .
We've got all these boxes in our garage for, green glass and clear glass and plastic and everything.
Where do you take them?
a couple places.
Unfortunately, we can't find a place that will take everything.
there's a lot of places to take, the plastic, shopping bags
like most of the grocery stores.
there's a Wal Mart nearby that takes almost everything.
I can't remember what it is they don't take.
the library will take glass.
we end up,
on the weekend we pack it all in the car
as we go places can drop the glass off ,
Drop things off one at a time,
it's kind of disappointing,
I would even be happy if they just had place where you could do everything.
it would still be more convenient than what we have now.
One of the people from my department, I think used to take a lot of the stuff to a recycling center that was for the benefit of the Dallas Shelter.
I think it was
Where is that?
closer to downtown.
she's not here anymore
I'm pretty far north.
I'm, I'm just, I'm north of Addison actually.
I'm in Dallas, but only technically .
sometimes our aluminum cans.
a lot of times they take them over to one of these can banks.
I've seen those.
You don't get too much money back.
I figure it pays for the gas to take my cans over there.
normally I collect, three trash bags full
I take them over to that can bank
it's more fun just to kind of like crunch the cans ,
in the can bank.
Don't get too much money for them
you get something .
We used to do that,
again, that's another stop
it doesn't take plastic bags all that sort of thing,
it was going well in the pilot area wherever that is
hopefully they'll do it soon.
That would be good because we have two trash pick ups a week
where I grew up we only had one a week
that was certainly sufficient.
if they just do,
one of them will be trash
the alternate time would be recyclables,
that would be great.
I'm disappointed sometimes they're not always consistent in picking up those papers,
I seem to put them out there
on Wednesday
sometimes they come by,
sometimes they don't.
I'm not really sure why they're not always consistent in that.
I could certainly have, three bins out there for, plastic and
and tin and paper, whatever they were going to, separate into have them pick it up one of the two days per week.
That would be easy.
Do you have to, sort the paper and take out the glossy pages and sort of thing
do they take the whole thing?
You're not supposed to have, the coupons in there.
you're not supposed to put magazines in there
you can't take newspapers.
Now at work, we have changed our recycling.
At first they were kind of finicky about what kind of paper you could recycle.
not too long ago they finally decided if it's anything that's paper and tears, you can throw it in there because at first
Let me guess
they said,
you work at T I,
at first they said,
So do I.
They said, no telephone books.
that's stupid
said no newspapers.
in my department everybody gets the WALL STREET JOURNAL.
There was a lot of paper coming out of our department that wasn't recyclable.
I thought that was pretty good to expand upon it,
they take cans, now, too.
Which is great.
I still put my cans in with the cans.
I don't want it with paper.
Somehow that just seems weird to me .
our department used to collect the cans anyway for the Christmas tree project.
In fact all of our money for the Christmas tree because we saved cans for the entire year.
it worked out really well.
we had the one person who used to take things to the Dallas Shelter.
I think that's what that was called.
from the whole department,
she took them all down to that Dallas Shelter place.
I wish I could remember the whole name of that place,
it's a charity for the benefit of this shelter.
to collect them from everybody in the department.
She'd go up and down with her little bag
from everybody.
we would get it,
you got any hobbies that you want to talk about?
I, don't seem to have as much spare time as I used to,
I guess I'll have to say my computer has probably taken the place of most of my hobbies.
What in the world do you do with your computer that takes so much time?
I sit and design cards
really into graphics,
just, I sit and learn new programs
I play ,
I do this,
I do that
Did you have, your own business
you do that just on the side, or what?
starting a side business in desk top publishing
it's just getting going.
teaching in the daytime
What do you teach?
I teach business and computer technology.
that's good.
I guess .
alternative learning
really a challenge,
What hobbies do you have?
I, play trombone in the Plano Community Band.
I, like to do a lot of bicycling when the weather allows, and during summer when there's daylight savings time's when I get out and bike.
I hope you all had as pretty a day today as we did.
it wasn't too bad, other than the Cowboys didn't do so hot.
now, yes .
I don't think you can blame the weather on that.
We had.
just a crummy,
the Lions are pretty good, a lot better team than the Cowboys were today.
(( )) .
On any given day, they say.
played in a while, but I do, when I get time and it's pretty weather and it's summer I like to play golf.
play that about six times a year
every year I hang my bag up if I get that five or six
I that game off for another year,
I always go back to it .
take spells,
kind of a compulsive obsessive person
when I start something, go into it a thousand percent
I understand that.
burned out on it.
I do some counted cross stitch and some painting on shirts.
you do lots of stuff.
it doesn't seem like I get anything done,
I guess I do
like to bake.
It's just me in the house,
when I bake it's usually to take out for something.
I come up there I'll have to stop by and try some of your baking.
I call on people in (( )) .
My business is, machine tool sales,
I have some,
cover Texas and Oklahoma.
said that I wasn't being real facetious about that.
I got customers in Oklahoma City and Tulsa and Perry, Oklahoma
how neat.
and Eda and way.
you do quite a bit of traveling then.
about thirty three thousand miles a year.
that doesn't leave a lot of time for hobbies,
does it?
I usually,
have band practice is on Monday night,
during the summer have concerts every Monday night in the park,
have, some concerts during the year,
various people in the communities want us to play for things,
those are usually on the weekend,
that isn't too bad.
How big is your band?
we got, pretty good size band.
Not everybody shows up,
if everyone did we'd probably have over a hundred
we only average about forty to fifty people usually.
that's still a pretty good size band.
It's not like there are four or five of you there.
This is a,
it's a concert band,
we have a lot of,
don't pretend to be that good,
there's a lot of people that, are band directors at schools, or have been,
there some people that are actually music majors.
They don't necessarily follow that any more,
that isn't necessarily their career,
we have some extremely good talent in there,
as a rule, it sounds pretty decent,
It's fun.
have absolutely no musical ability whatsoever,
I'm always very envious of people who do.
I don't know if I have any or not.
always enjoyed it.
I sing in a church choir on Wednesday nights when I'm around, and play in the band on Monday nights, and keeps you out of trouble that way.
I'm probably one of the few people that the,
Okay, Lee.
Tell me about your ideas on this, the U S government supporting health insurance and so forth.
I think it's inevitable that we are going to see national health care
the reason is because the market place doesn't seem to have performed adequately, the invisible hand that which Adam Smith wrote has, provided some very good health care and, much, inadequate health care.
in some cases, the absence of health care has resulted from market place forces
I think, it's inevitable.
It is just a matter of, time and mistakes
they're both inevitable.
what is this going to do the insurance companies who are supporting this work now and hopefully are doing, a good job?
it's going to make it tough for them
it's going to be a difficult transition.
I don't know, how it's going to, play out in terms of the particulars,
I don't think that society will be willing to tolerate the current health care crisis for too long.
Our, physical and mental and spiritual health, it's really, very costly.
as a society we are paying a staggering price for this.
this is what's bothering me, Lee, another question,
do you think that there should be some control, innovated such that the doctors are not allowed to charge ridiculously over priced things.
We realize that for the individual person, some things are very important.
matter of fact, in some respects their life might depend on it.
by the same token some of these charges they make for minor endeavors,
on the parts the doctors are really out of line.
there are abus ,
There should be some control of that.
they're abusive of privileges .
that is what is giving the local, insurance companies hard times.
That is the one thing we have no control over are these charges that happen when you go to hospitals
you get something done
they want to charge twenty thousand dollars for it.
this I think is one of the things that national health care of some sort of evolutionary process over the next ten, or twenty or thirty years will address.
I know this is, addressed in Canada.
have a good friend who is, a physician practicing in Canada.
they made the transition,
I think that the,
for example the duplication of magnetic resonance imageries
We have had several of them.
My wife and I both have had that recently.
had one myself
they're wonderful technology,
cities have three or four more than they need or three or four times the number they need.
I think that what the market place doesn't do because of the way the system has worked
it doesn't allocate resources oftenly because to drive up the price of medical care primarily because the insurance companies could pass on the bills,
it's begun to change all of that.
The people paying the bills,
employers ultimately, have begun to squawk because they have seen their health care cost rise two hundred percent in the past ten years.
I think the evolution will be interesting.
Hawaii has a system that is apparently working
it will be interesting to see much more attention we pay to that.
I do think though that it is inevitable primarily because of the pain, that people are feeling, under the circumstances.
I believe that it will contribute to something that we would at this point call national health care, whether it's subsidized by the government operated by private insurers,
I don't know.
I like that idea.
I tend to be one of those people who believes the market place can under varied circumstances with the profit incentive work very very well.
would be a lot better off contracted our national defense to a group who rather that operated as a government entity because we would probably have much less waste.
bothers me about the government
the problem with government, administration of these programs
that is one of the things that we as society are going to have to deal with.
Government is going to have to change in this regard.
Do you think that that these insurance things should be covered on a State basis or U S government basis?
that is really a tough one for me to answer.
to see the greatest improvement in management.
my field is the cognitive sciences
I recognize that a lot of these things that are done, are done, as a function of the operating systems in place.
those operating systems have to change
as we become more efficient in developing machine operating systems we're going to develop more efficient human operating systems
a State or federal application, could work.
it all depends upon the way you structure the environment.
We may have to deal with,
I'm ready.
in Atlanta, Georgia you probably have a lot more crime than we have here in Patterson, California.
this little city is only about eight thousand people.
crime a problem there?
(( )) a major problem, minor problem or,
in Patterson there's,
it's not a problem here.
I lived in Oakland, until just recently
Oakland, California, God, they've had sixty seven murders so far this year compared to forty at this time last year.
it's really bad there.
it's all related to drugs it seems like.
Is that what it's there too?
I've only been here for
probably just over six months I start, I
started school here.
I came from a smaller town New York
the city was fairly big size not real big
we had a problem there
here there's just no comparison that, much more crime.
every night the news is very depressing because run down the list of how many people were shot, drive by shootings or
it's pretty bad.
things have basically improved here over the last few years.
actually taken steps to try to make it better
is a problem.
I don't know what they can do to make it better unless they just hire more policemen.
seems to be what they were doing
up more patrols in certain areas
it has
has made some places safer
it's very difficult.
if you don't have an infinite amount of money try to stop the problem although most people wish you could
as definitely a problem
the less that's done about it the more it seems it tends to spread into smaller areas unfortunately.
think that if they would do something to these people that they do catch instead of just slapping their little hands
maybe those other people would be kind of scared
they would not do these bad things,
that, it's, seems to be that, some people something,
they shoot somebody or whatever,
they go to jail,
sentenced to jail for thirty years they're out in five
they're back on the street
they shoot someone else
just cycle
it as though system doesn't tend to stop them unless something is drastic is done.
I just don't understand laws here.
like in other countries, they're really a lot stricter than we are.
It's, definitely true.
It as though we try to play humanitarian I think a little to much *
maybe some of the people don't deserve humanitarian treatment that they get.
I don't know.
It's a difficult situation I think
has to be done because I definitely think it really havoc with your quality of life when, you can see it's going on around you
then when, once it finally affects you it really starts to bother you.
it seems,
people have moved out of the city because they want to get away from the crime
they tend to spread the cities farther and farther out
it's only a matter of time before, it still catches up with them.
You can't really run away from the problem
has to be done but just that too many people argue about how to fix it.
I know when I lived in Oakland, it was just that, I definitely wouldn't go into certain areas the city by myself.
again some areas I wouldn't go by myself after dark
down here, in Patterson, like I say, it's so small
that you can go anywhere.
(( Yeah,
that's good )) .
just, twenty miles away in Modesto, they have, those gangs and things over there.
In Sacramento also, they have, drive by shootings it seems like all the time.
I don't know.
don't know they can do
to bad because it's, just even the random occurrences where, it's unsafe for a woman just to walk from the car to the, some, in certain areas like to the mall or something
it's dangerous.
I know.
not right.
Something (( )) .
like going to the grocery store.
I know we've had this one lady that was attacked,
you just don't know what to do anymore,
some of the times it's happening in the daytime too,
it's not always happening at dark.
I don't know.
it's definitely unfortunate .
let me see .
I've been sitting here awhile.
I almost forgot the topic.
it seems like I get most of my news from television.
only get the paper on the weekends
I'm not much paper reader
I'm don't, rarely listen to the, radio
I get most of my news from documentaries like FORTY EIGHT HOURS, TWENTY TWENTY, the news at night.
News in the afternoon, that kind of thing.
I get a,
weekend paper as well
in addition to that I get a local weekly.
live in suburb of Milwaukee
community newspapers around here so stuff
is in the local paper that comes out once a week
I get the Sunday, MILWAUKEE JOURNAL because I don't have time to read a paper.
that's my difficulty.
get my news pretty much from the same sources as you do, although I do listen to N P R which has very good, which
has very good, coverage of the national and international news,
and does a pretty good job of analysis as well.
Are you in the car quite a bit
I'm not
I can run my radio in my office.
teach at the university
when I'm not
teaching, if I choose to have the radio on I can listen to that station,
I see.
satisfied with the TWENTY TWENTY and FORTY EIGHT HOURS and the things that you do watch?
I pretty much am
I watch the news at least twice a day.
if I've missed something I've just recently decided to stay home with my children
it seems as if I catch the news as it happens,
There was the explosions and that kind of thing.
My husband will say how did you know about that.
it happened at such and such time .
that's different for me.
I usually find out exactly when it happens and that kind of thing.
Is that the aspect of the news that you're most interested in the timely noting of the events as they happen?
Is that what you feel good about in the news coverage?
it just seems like since I've recently stayed home, that is what's happened,
It's just that, now that I've stayed home, usually aware of when these things occurred
it happened
I, myself, reason why I listen to N P R and the reason why I watch MACNEIL LEHRER,
rather network news shows at night, although I do watch a local ten o'clock in the evening news which carries over a lot of the national news stories
is that quite often it seems to me the national doesn't do a very good job of analysis.
The local doesn't either
I feel that MACNEIL LEHRER get a little more deeply into of the issues that are really current.
. *
perhaps newspapers do that
as I said, I don't have time to sit down and read a newspaper
frankly when I have read a newspaper
I haven't noticed that kind of analysis either.
some danger to that, of course, too.
if the analysis is inaccurate or biased or whatever then, how good is it.
I like a little more indepth coverage
I think that's what maybe appealing to you too on something like TWENTY TWENTY or
FORTY EIGHT HOURS.
It kind of gives you the whole story or more of the story.
That kind of thing.
I'm more interested in trying to understand what's going on in the world
rather than simply being aware an event has occurred .
like to stand back and get a slightly bigger picture.
Maybe because I'm easily confused by detail.
I don't know .
I know what you're saying.
I try and catch most of those programs on Wednesday's and Friday's
if I miss them, tape them if I'm out (( )) that kind of thing,
I try and tape them
I can sit back and watch them.
it's pretty interesting.
you have young children, right?
those evening shows are probably also at a time when you're at liberty to take some time off and be in front of the T V set for awhile without interruption.
I find that I have to video tape quite a bit of things .
you do?
If I don't want any interruptions,
That kind of thing.
When is your good watching time?
it seems like ten o'clock at night .
that's what,
what it seems like, ten o'clock at night.
I have older children
huh .
and getting dinner on the table.
I come from the east coast
I was,
it amazed me when I got out here to the midwest and found out that even though they're an hour earlier in time, they still watch the news when,
in Texas they do have the, capital punishment
I, I'm probably one that has to agree with it too.
there a ,
some things that go on that just feel, that, is a need.
I don't know.
A lot of people don't feel that way either
I just feel that ,
I don't know how much publicity it's gotten outside of the state
California we just put somebody to death
for, I think it was a double murder.
to be honest, I didn't pay that much attention, to the details of it.
it had a lot of controversy out here.
basically, because in California people like to protest about everything.
I agree,
I believe there are a number of crimes that capital punishment is the best way to go.
the big disagreement I have is that in California, the appeals process, is so extensive and takes so long that you end up spending a huge amount of money in ten to fifteen years before you can actually, put somebody to death for, for a crime.
that is a consequence,
if you can, the trial is supposed to prove, within a reasonable doubt that the person is guilty,
they have appeals.
that's fine
it shouldn't take more,
than a few years.
I should think
two or three years maximum, you should be able to know
you should be able to either put the guy to death
he's innocent.
if he's guilty multiple murders or whatever the case may be
maybe that's something that needs to be worked on.
just feel capital punishment needs to stay within the system.
Not all states have them
I, was that, was that the, I'm not sure if that was in,
was that the man claimed he was abused
he was like,
that he had
(( he )) ,
they're that, his mother been an alcoholic she was
pregnant with him
wasn't, mentally competent or anything else.
Which is ridiculous,
the court found him competent,
he knew what he was doing and everything else.
the best defense they could come up with.
how long had he been ?
How long was that?
I forget.
I think it was something like twelve years or something.
something really outrageous.
. Boy.
it seems like rarely does happen.
used that often
At least here in Texas
I think it's something that needs to stay.
I really do .
I think in general, punishment in the United States is a lot weaker than it should be.
it needs to be,
it's kind of like the, the justice system in the United States is kind of like the dog poops on the carpet
you wait three months
you put his nose in it and spank him for it.
no connection between the two.
you take most of the people who are committing violent crimes, most of them, not all by any means,
a large percentage are the kind of people who are living very much day to day in the first place.
they don't really see past next week much less next year.
to say, if I kill somebody then a decade from now, I might face the punishment.
That's not real.
It doesn't have any real impact on them.
My sister and I were wondering about this recently because old friend of ours in California,
this happened about a week ago.
her husband just killed her
we're wondering if that has an effect.
does capital punishment, does it happen
I don't know .
you mean, would he be put to death for that?
largely depends on the circumstances
generally, from what I understand, only the most brutal types of things usually.
Where it's multiple,
I think you're right.
they can say things like, he was just, temporarily insane because of,
some domestic squabble then
give him, twenty years parole twelve or something like that .
I have an uncle that is an attorney that defends people ,
All righty.
I guess our topic today is air pollution.
we are to just discuss what substances do you think that contribute most to air pollution, as well as what society can do to improve the air quality of the atmosphere around us.
does your work entitle, anything of environmental along these lines?
in the legal department
we do have, a group of attorneys who handle our environmental issues.
I don't know too much about the air pollution thing.
I do know for other types of pollution like the toxic waste and such that T I has to dispose of that we normally put in the ground, we're coming up with new solution.
We have been finding a lot of toxic places to dump
we just transport to these places.
after awhile it always seems that site starts to leak
you have to clean it up and such.
the new idea is to take everything up to Sherman,
we're going have that, incineration place up there and,
dump everything there.
supposedly that facility will not generate air pollutants from what I've heard, that everything would be confined kind of incinerator and just burn it all up.
And that we won't be polluting the air.
I'm sure we have to have, permits, for that place. And that there's, limits as to what we can, let, go into the air.
It's, hav ,
environmentals, projects right now.
the Sherman deal lost a lot of hair over that project.
Oh .
what we run into, is we have the Texas Air Control Board, T A C B, that send out, jurisdictions under which we have to, reply to.
a lot of their rules and regulation aren't real clear, so we have our manager of environmental, who assist the T A C B, in writing
look what we've done here at T I.
we are presently, in receipt of a site permit, which will allow us to,
this is our side a ,
allow to have certain emissions up to a certain tonnage.
It's in,
in, in tons per year.
what we do to make contributions so that, basically, we go and do things like put in high tech scrubber systems, that, scrub out the, N O X and, V O C's ammonia compounds, like all the acids, to a certain level.
are very, aware of the opacity, which is the thickness of a stack emissions.
if you don't see anything coming out of a stack the opacity is zero or twenty or thereabouts.
what we go through is, if you see it smoking there's a problem.
having worked with some of the legal folks very closely, it becomes a real issue, especially, when it's smoking
you have to get it fixed el pronto.
As you know, allowed to come on site, the federaldes, anytime they want, drive through, and see, and inspect.
it's a full time, everybody has their home phone number type of job.
Now is that place built
you're still on the makings of it?
The Sherman facility, we are still in the, closer too, but still have a little bit of, finalization to do.
It's been pitched to the Sherman City Council with,
open arms, as well as the public.
We had open forum
Tom Jones, our guys handle the project.
its well.
I think it's of fund,
funds right now as I understand it.
something else.
they're in the same issue.
We were hoping on burning a lot of the effluent up there.
system is setup where it won't have any emissions.
You're correct.
It will have something coming out of the stackhouse it was,
it was human nature.
it won't have bad stuff.
I think T I, of all the major semiconductor firms, we probably put safety and environmental on the utmost, foremost, first thing we always look at.
And we probably put more money into the systems engineering behind the system of any other firm I know of.
We eat and sleep the stuff, everything we do over here.
it's an interesting job.
I know from some of the sites that we've had, quite a list of cites that have gone bad
you have to clean up.
you know the law now is the super fund
anybody who's contributed toxic waste, no matter if you were somebody that eventually, damaged the ground or not.
everybody has to contribute
it's been a lot of big bucks when we've pulled into these super fund deals to clean it up and, mega bucks to, take everything out and redo it and, fill in some other area
certainly, it would to have a better solution, the Sherman facility than, just letting it go in the ground.
eventually, seems that no matter what they do, if they put it in oil drums and then seal it in some kind of cement lined, dump area.
It still only in time starts to leak out.
was one site that they cleaned up
the new place leaked again. (( )) .
I'm familiar with that one.
stuff that's very interesting,
we have hoods,
we have duckwork and all those type of interesting pieces of equipment where, they have, that we sample
it may have over, a certain emission levels,
this is on the (( solid side )) ,
we take it
we can't (( deep well )) inject something like that because it's a solid.
we mix it with concrete
and potash, per se, and concrete and then actually put it in the ground. But in a hazardous waste location because it's, basically, a concrete slab.
It was totally legal.
the cost of doing this is astronomical,
they actually show you what duckwork and things.
we were, very, very, cognizance of, and aware of all these types of, expenditures because it could get very expensive.
I think do all kinds of things to make world a better place to live,
I think some of the folks that aren't aware of it will be surprised at how much effort and energy is put into doing that.
I really would.
I've enjoyed speaking with you,
This has been an interesting topic.
I was one of the,
I was responsible for all the planning and engineering over the corporate, or in the north building .
you were?
I hope you like your office.
It's a heck of a lot different.
we used to be really embarrassed about the gray metal desk.
We were about the only,
place in, T I that had the gray metal desk.
People used to come and laugh and go, I hadn't seen one of those ten, fifteen years.
Glad to see y'all taken care of.
I think what changed everything is, were the only ones that make any money for TI, here in the last ten years,
Ju ,
finally got a little respect.
Nobody thought of us as a profit center before.
that's, you start, when you start paying your way, Jerry takes a different outlook towards you guys.
I was just,
Not just overhead.
I've enjoyed speaking with you.
You too.
See you later.
Bye bye.
in order to make the, curried chicken, I just fried the chicken,
until it was nice and brown,
make sure it's nice and brown on both sides
you take it out of the fat
let the chicken you fried kind of drain, so that a lot of the oil comes out of it .
pour oil out of the pan
you kind of clean it out
you put back maybe two tablespoons full of the oil and saute some, bell peppers and onions that little bit of oil.
Maybe one tablespoon or two tablespoons, let that brown, then put all of the chicken back in there.
you, mix flour and a cup of water, maybe, one tablespoon of flour and a cup of water.
Stir it real, real well.
Then you, pour that in there, to make the gravy.
you let it come to a boil again
you let it simmer
you add, about a tablespoon of, what I'm using now is Jamaican curry powder.
be really good .
That's very spicy, too.
these bell peppers and curry.
if you like it really hot, you can add some hot, hot peppers and hot sauce and all that kind of stuff.
that sounds really good.
I guess it was,
is this dinner time for you?
it will be in a little while,
I'm trying to ready early.
All done in advance,
not that great a cook
I was single until I was thirty
I did cook a little,
I cook a little bit now.
What I like to do mostly is stir fries
my wife normally says, Tom, don't you make a stir fry tonight
were recently married so we have a stir fry pan sort of like a big wok.
we do a lot of, stir fry vegetables.
What kind of wok do you have,
a real Chinese wok.
called a stir fry pan
fits right on your, st , it fits right on your burner, whether it's gas or electric
has a flatter bottom than a normal wok does.
I see.
normally do is, just, like two tablespoons of oil, maybe sesame oil some other type of oil than just regular
I will use oil, or things.
we just stir fry broccoli and carrots and, green peppers, and, maybe put in a little bit of, garlic and ginger, beforehand.
That gives, spicier flavor
after the stir fry is over, just mix in, a little bit of, sometimes chicken broth,
and corn starch and soy sauce
that sort of makes glaze,
that sticks to vegetables,
I've used,
you turn them over.
A lot of times when we do stir fry we just put in tofu,
we don't put in meat,
cause I guess not
she likes to watch how much red meat and things,
We'll do, a lot of times vegetarian.
it's a real good meal because you have squash and broccoli and, carrots and celery and green peppers and, mushrooms.
a pretty big
we put that over rice.
That sounds real good except the squash,
I just don't like squash.
you don't .
I never did.
My mother used to cook a whole pan full of squash
she'd have squash and corn bread .
maybe she'd have chicken or something.
I'd just be,
had squash growing up.
wife than I did growing up.
from Pittsburgh
Pittsburgh is a very meat and potato town.
recipes in Pittsburgh consisted of red meat and a potato.
Red meat and a potato.
that sounds good.
were from North Carolina
we had a garden
my mother grow the squash
she'd grow white potatoes and onions and cabbage and collards and all kinds of,
she had all of those types of vegetables.
vegetables in my family.
it was really funny.
You wouldn't believe it, we even raised chickens .
that was a real farm.
You ever seen anybody kill a chicken?
I've heard stories
I've heard stories.
they put the head under a tin tub and chop the head off.
you hear the chicken jumping around under the tub
finally it dies down,
you get just a little patter
this is ter ,
you shouldn't be talking about this while you're fixing dinner.
Getting ready to eat chicken too.
That's right,
you should be careful .
That's pretty funny.
my dad used to tell stories, about the way they eat chickens
we lived in the suburbs,
bought everything in a grocery store.
There was no,
it was funny,
it so,
when we got married, a lot more vegetables, changes.
that's good.
A lot of people are eating healthier now a days.
I think so too,
we just went shopping
we came back sweets, chocolate covered peanuts
we came back with sweets.
We didn't bring all the healthy food back too.
I'm trying to learn how to cook, deserts all of the sweets, maybe use honey or something.
supposed to be, the trend of the future,
but, the cut back.
recently was over a friends house that's Indian
she had brought Indian sweets into the office
it was really funny because they were made from yogurt and carrots.
that was a sweet
I was like ugh.
This is a sweet.
a candy,
I'm like ugh,
Indian candy is not very good.
you didn't notice it at first,
everything was sort of hot.
Everything had a little bit of curry in it.
The spice,
It was funny, even the sweets did.
When you first took a bite of them you didn't notice it
then after a couple of minutes you could taste it.
it had after taste that, Indian flavor.
they didn't have,
I didn't like her desserts very well,
they were very, yogurt and carrots and nuts and yogurt.
it wasn't very good.
I might have liked some of that
like hot stuff,
I really do.
have we done our ten minutes.
is it ten minutes.
Something like that,
I think we're,
I don't know,
do we get a signal.
they just come in
they say you've overextended conversation.
this is my first one.
you'll see come on
it'll say you've over extended your conversation, you now have it.
I've been cut off twice.
I just thought,
in fact I'm just also,
I'm hearing a siren outside I think neighbors car must have got bumped,
he has one of those alarms on his car,
it's going off.
I was going to go out and see what they were doing.
thanks so much.
thank you,
it was nice talking with you.
you said this was your fi ,
get a couple more probably.
called yesterday, or Friday,
maybe I talked to somebody that, I got them on, during the day.
It was a housewife
she was home with two kids.
while we're talking the kids are screaming in the background, that they wanted something
they were arguing back and forth
she just kept talking the whole time,
it was pretty funny.
kind of hard that way.
thanks a lot,
I'll talk to you later.
All right,
thank you,
bye bye.
do you own a P C?
not personally
you have one at work.
several .
now because,
doing my, Master's in Computer Science and Computer Engineering.
don't have one,
I have to use them,
my undergrad.
your first couple of years you use personal computers because, the software.
it's easier for you to go to and run a program,
through the disk,
because, the grader can do it at home.
Then, go up higher, in your senior level, you're doing projects which so big,
you have to have so many people sharing the same data,
that you can't use personal computers, so you have to use, a main frame.
I know do have computer at home,
it's one that the company has loaned me.
been my situation, is that, that way I can get in, access our, computers that I have up here and, do work from home.
does it have, a disk drive?
the ones that we use, are like UNIX base systems.
they don't have a disk drive.
you can't,
the only way that you can do it is through a modem.
just do it that way.
the only way that you can get the system,
you can't store it anywhere.
I have both, because what I use all the time is UNIX Systems. versus the DOS.
then I teach DOS classes, at night.
part time.
you also have to do all your grading on the P C.
the really neat thing, I teach in the continuing education classes, so have to have no grade books, so that's great .
I find that I use personal computer a lot though for my WordPerfect,
and also for my spread sheets.
I think it's extremely helpful and very useful.
for us like for doing resumes,
and, presentations.
We use for example, a Mackintosh, which is a lot easier for graphics,
the I B M P C's or anything compatible with that.
to the fact that, haven't tested P S two yet.
I don't know if the software is as easily, like you can manage it a lot easier the old one.
The old one you had to go pick a line, use little arrows to go onto the screen and check where you wanted to start, and where,
you know, with the mouse you do it, a hundred times faster.
That's true.
That's true.
you also get,
when you see it on the Mackintosh with, the one I have,
that doesn't have any color,
you can look at it
that's the way it's going to print out.
especially if you have a laser printer, it's going to print out the same way as it's on the screen.
the I B M what would happen is, since the software that I had was, it was basically, you only see part of the page.
the whole page never can actually see it,
you just draw it
they have to zoom out and zoom in
it's like, every time that you have to do something it's really a pain.
What a hassle,
also, it's like presentations,
it's like if you have to do any statistical data it can be easily represented P C.
it can be easily represented P C.
years back when you didn't have that you would have to map out numbers.
and get a graph which you weren't sure if it was okay or not,
new system I can calculate everything so fast,
like for spread sheets.
You can see what the trend is over the years.
I love all the windows that they have out now too,
they have really simplified things.
had a, I had a program due
window I had the program
the other one I had the program running.
so if there was ever a mistake, I could easily check,
I could look at the program and say, this is where I made the error.
Instead of saying, where did I make the error?
go back and forth
you always,
the old ones you had to go out of your program, the program again,
in this case.
After you load it up change it, hope that's right,
get out of that, run the program,
run, as long as it took,
and then go back and see if that worked or not.
with windows you can have the program
it messed up in line fifty four.
you take a look at line fifty four,
you take a look at the output at the same time,
you can see where it messed up, because, it's like in the old computers, the ones that, we're using here a couple of years ago, you would always have to have a printout,
every time that you ran your program, *
you would need a printout because everything else was erased in the background. *
I know, remember my college days . And having to do that too.
did you learn it in computer science?
I sure did.
when was this.
I graduated in eighty six.
it's been fairly recent.
I know because, all I know is that when I came here in eighty seven,
The cards.
it was the last year put all your punch cards in.
I didn't have to bother with that at all, thank goodness.
was just sensational because I walked in
they go, my God, they're still using this.
It was like, this is the last year you can put your punch cards in and get your program out
You can get a hard copy of it,
that's about it.
the price of computers has gone down.
They said that, if the auto industry would have kept the same trend as the computer industry has ever since, it started,
they said that, cars would cost two dollars
they would run forever.
that would be great.
it's like, joke with the Yugo,
it's like, when your, car runs out of gas just throw it away.
the way it would be.
It's like I think I'll buy a new car today,
the price has really gone down.
I B M which,
an I B M P C in in nineteen eighty one it would cost you five thousand dollars,
now you can get it, for, one thousand dollars, of the parts basically.
the two eighty six too,
The parts and the labor is what they're charging you,
they're not charging you, over pricing,
it because it's like, if we sell it for less, it's like we're losing money,
It's like we want to sell it to break even at least.
I think they stopped producing the I B M P C.
the, P C Junior was a total failure,
to them.
They had,
they're trying to get out small computers,
the only problem was that when they took that one out, the small computer was the I B M P C .
you couldn't,
it's like, sure bring out. N , into the market something that's smaller when uses anything that's smaller than, this,
over the past years it's like I B M has been producing
every two years they bring out a whole new system.
like the P C X T, A T, and the P S one, P S two things,
It's just that you have to always compete
Mackintosh took a lot of the market from a lot of schools.
you can work with it a lot easier.
That's true.
that's what they're trying to do.
I'll leave you back to your work.
have a good lunch.
All right,
bye, bye.
All right.
we used to be big time campers
now we're not quite so much since the kids are involved so much in sports.
What type of camping did you do?
had kids, we was in a motorcycle group,
went twenty or thirty at a time.
We took, just our little tents,
we did it that way.
Then when we started having children we bought a camper.
we did it that way.
how neat.
we've always enjoyed camping.
I know a tent,
the kids and I like to go out and camp in the tent.
I bought a van
that way I can sleep in the van and be more comfortable .
Now we have friends with a van,
when they go on vacation a lot of times they'll just sleep in the van,
one night
the next night they'll stay at the motel, or something like that.
they enjoy it.
think I'm a real true, trooper, when it comes,
to camping.
All the bugs and stuff .
me either.
try .
I hate to be on (( all that stuff )) .
I try,
get out there and enjoy everything.
what was so fun though is that I had to take my son to the doctor this morning because he went out camping with some friends
he got poison ivy,
it's all over him.
The poor thing,
there's definitely hazards to going camping if you don't know what you're looking at .
I enjoy it every once in a while,
it's not something I'd want to do real often.
I'm a sissy.
I either want to do it in the fall or spring.
You know?
Definitely when it's cool.
have you done much camping around Texas?
not really because usually it's when we go off,
for a couple weeks or so.
It's usually like that.
have you camped all over the United States?
Just about.
Just about.
now I haven't so that,
I bet you that's an experience there.
it really is.
It really is.
Also I said we mostly did ours before we started a family.
It's a lot easier then.
I know my parents like to camp a lot,
been going to Gulf Shores, Alabama.
And, which is really, really neat.
They said they've got the white beaches and the sand,
it's not real populated so like they're in the outdoors and still close to the ocean.
from what I understand from them it's really, really pretty there.
I'd like to go anywhere.
I just like to go.
I really do.
have you done much camping up in Kentucky those parts,
in the mountains?
not really,
not that much.
to Wyoming, and Kentucky and Montana and, places like that.
usually if we're with a group of people (( we )) really don't stay any one place very long.
if we're just going through and they camp one night and then head on.
now that we have children and we go every blue moon,
I'd rather just go to Galveston.
rent a beach house or something, *
my idea of camping. *
getting more into it
quite a bit
the kids like to go out, as often as they can.
that's good.
becoming enthusiasts then of camping.
It is.
My children really enjoys it.
They really do.
by the time we really get a chance to it's July,
it's so hot.
our camper have an air conditioner.
it's one of those pop ups.
I'm sure you could put one in probably,
we hadn't did that.
that's really neat.
we all enjoy camping.
in (( )) scouts and stuff like that,
so, they get to go camping in those organizations also.
At least their Daddy goes with them,
I don't,
when they do that.
that's neat.
That really is.
That's really neat.
how old is your boys,
your children?
I have, a son that's, going to be eleven here pretty soon,
and then a daughter that's thirteen.
getting old enough to where they can help out with a campfire and,
cooking all that kind of stuff too.
really neat.
It really is.
Mine's eleven and eight.
they really enjoy it too.
agree with you.
They like to get out there
this wasn't so fun this last time for Nathan get out there
he didn't realize he was touching poison ivy
it got all into his eye
it was really swollen
they had to give him shots and everything,
, maybe next time he'll stay away from those particular ,
or bushes, whatever they are .
I have, brother in law and a sister, that camp.
they love to go camping.
all the time they wanted,
wanted to because there's nothing holding them back.
I'm just not that involved in it.
now I like to go out several times a year.
But not regular basis.
I have some friends who go out every single weekend,
in the season.
I just couldn't do that,
(( I haven't )) really as far as entertainment,
I don't know what you would do every ,
I guess, my entertainment's,
Just getting away.
television, I guess .
they just want to get away.
every Friday night they'll go home, straight from work
they'll pack up
they'll leave,
I'm just going,
by Friday night I just want to crash,
I want to go home and, do all that,
I don't either .
and then, get out on the road to boot,
anyway that's their life .
they probably live in a city also,
don't they?
that's true.
we're in a real small county area,
that makes a big difference.
Now that's true.
That's true.
if we want to go camping we can just go just a few miles, .
That's true.
That makes a difference.
it was nice talking with you.
It was nice talking to you too,
we'll probably be talking to you again.
take care.
bye bye.
Bye bye.
do you have any credit cards?
I do.
an American Express, and a Visa card that I keep, kind of for emergency purposes,
a gasoline credit card which I, pay off
gotten rid of all of the credit cards, that I possibly could,
my balances are practically zero on the ones that I have.
Especially since, it's no longer after this year,
after tax year nineteen ninety, there's no deductions for, credit card interest that you pay.
it's a,
credit cards run, anywhere from, up to eighteen, nineteen percent, I guess.
It's just a bad deal.
Course, there are emergencies, that you, probably need to have a card.
I have one card.
probably enough.
I try not to use it,
right now, it's maxed out .
very easy do that or, to abuse it,
it really is.
It's so easy to pull out the plastic,
we're trying our best add any, credit card debt to our structure here.
I have,
the thing that bothers me worse than the credit cards, I think, is, you mentioned the gasoline credit card.
I don't have that,
I've got, one of the instant teller cards
that you can use for point of sale purchases.
we use that usually to buy gasoline,
it's just
it's really amazing how quickly that goes.
I'm sure you're right.
I don't participate in that,
a lot of folks do.
at least with the, gasoline company credit cards you have, up to thirty, twenty five, thirty days, interest free for it.
the instant thing may be the way of the future replace checks and every other thing.
that's what talked about it.
Course it eliminates any waiting period.
It certainly does.
God help those people who have to float checks occasionally
because you won't be able to with that.
That's right.
Do you get any sort of discount when you use a card like that?
I see.
it was,
they consider it to be the same as cash
I see,
I see.
cause it actually is.
It certainly is,
It's better than cash .
They don't even have to deposit it,
it just goes straight in there.
That's right.
No returned checks or anything.
understand it's becoming, the popular thing to do.
We're not participating in that particular program at the moment,
I don't really perceive doing it unless we absolutely have to.
I have in times past gotten into a bit of trouble with credit cards.
It's just, too easy to do.
I'm so glad he told me they got to such a point with their credit cards they didn't want to cut them up because they were afraid sometime they might actually need them.
That's right.
They paid them off,
they stuck them in a thing of water and froze them.
She said at least before she could use them she'd have to thaw them out.
that's funny.
that's a novel idea.
that would cause you think a little while, wouldn't it.
That may not be a bad idea.
. I'm kind of getting a little more leery of credit cards, as time goes by.
Unless you just absolutely have to.
there are times when you'd
at least think you do, anyway.
want to still have just one
just in case.
sure want to paid down and
not use it for a while .
That's right.
My wife and I really, I guess are fortunate.
We're really not compulsive shoppers,
plan purchases, pretty well, watch for the best buys, things like that.
some people have a real problem with it.
limit is, fairly low
one thing that's good.
I've got another call.
I'm sorry.
Was nice talking to you.
Take care.
All right.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
All right.
we lived,
I grew up in San Antonio,
I was used to the heat,
I was used to what couldn't grow down there,
we had a small, farm house out in Castroville which is just, to the west of San Antonio
we did a lot of gardening out there, and, mostly in raised beds so we could keep the, soil nice, because basically out there it was mostly a clay soil, very hard grow, very hard to cultivate,
when we came up, here, to California, we're in the Monterrey area,
it's very, nice sandy soil, rich soil,
the weather is perfect for growing just about anything you want to grow
How fine.
so we've been out here, really in the house since December,
we've been planting flowers that we could never plant,
in San Antonio because the heat would just dry them up after, about three good weeks of nice weather before the heat started
here they are supposed to last year around
so we have some really pretty flowers growing,
we're at the edge of a forest area, so there's a lot of pine mulch .
Just about anything you would want in Texas as a gardener is here just around us.
We got here at the end of about a four year drought.
We've had a whole lot of rain.
it's been raining pretty much continually now, off and on, maybe one day of break, for about a month.
we're getting replenished,
there is,
when I first came here everything was yellow,
the grass was dead everywhere.
now with all the rain everything is just gorgeous, lush and green and beautiful,
I hope that it holds out here after the summer.
that has been the major change that we have noticed in gardening,
that's about the extent of what we've done, just a little bit on the patio, and waiting for the rain to subside so we can mow.
finally got to mow this weekend.
we're just so happy to see green.
It's just so nice.
We haven't really done too much else other than that.
we just moved to our first home,
we had lived in a condominium before.
we didn't have any lawn and garden type duties.
we're just learning the ropes here
when we moved in,
our backyard has so many tall trees in it that even a blade of grass in the backyard.
we're, to some of our friends that are landscapers and things, and learning about different kinds of grass.
We trying to go, grow grass,
it just seems so funny to me that, when I grew up in Missouri,
you didn't have to worry about growing grass there.
It just happened automatically.
do you have to get a shade tolerant grass?
Is that what you're,
We are.
some fescue last, fall
it's really, really pretty,
and, green, *
it stayed green throughout the winter,
it's pretty goo ,
it's not as thick and as nice,
it doesn't look like it can withstand too much,
Does that last through the summer, too?
It's supposed to die off in August,
you replant it in September
we don't,
the Saint Augustine and all that supposedly was back there just wasn't,
like I say, there really wasn't even one blade of grass in the backyard.
mostly, we're not even to the point where we're getting into flowers,
and flower beds or even gardens, that, we're just saying, let's get some grass .
Just get grass to grow.
Let's get grass so that the kids can play in the yard and not have to be worried about the dirt so much.
when we had our house, out in Castroville, the problem with ours is that the, plots there are a third of an acre .
And trying to keep grass alive during a summer on a piece of ground that big was expensive .
To water it
eventually, especially when it was so bad last year, I guess it was the year before now, it was so hot that year,
that was the year that I think it started out a hundred in February.
we were just watering all the time.
Finally what we did was we said, we're going to have to let the back yard die.
It's going to have to do whatever it's going to do because,
On its own,
we can't really afford the front yard.
when we left, the back yard had some,
I think it was Saint Augustine that we had.
It had held onto a small portion,
primarily once the weeds start in the back we were just, resigned to, the only way we were going to fix this one is that if you plow it all under
and put everything back on top of it again.
I don't know.
That's the bad thing there, is, that we spent so much money,
you would spend so much money trying to keep a large lawn alive.
That was the only thing I didn't like about lawns,
we were sitting there wondering, there must be a better way to landscape so that you don't have to spend so much money trying to keep the lawn alive and green and the weeds out.
It's pretty remarkable because growing up we've always had a beautiful, lush green lawn,
we never,
there was no such thing as watering your lawns
in Missouri.
It just happened.
it's been real fun here to see,
there's a big market for the nurseries and for the landscaping companies,
a lot of people,
we live in north of Dallas.
Arlington area.
up north .
there's a lot of market up here since it's kind of the area that people are moving into in the Dallas area
and big market work.
I imagine .
is so particular, especially in the Dallas area.
so much money
everyone can afford,
they have enough leisure time to afford a nice lawn.
another thing I've noticed is that the lawns in some of the homes
the area is so small
that they take great pride in being able to use whatever lawn they do have to look really nice.
they do.
I noticed that they're really putting in small back yards, because most of the houses have the alleys
that run behind,
that really cuts into your backyard space,
we don't do our work here out of enjoyment so much as
right now, we just moved in in September,
we're just still at the point where we're talking about the necessity.
I know.
it's awful the first house.
Our house in Castroville was the first one, too.
we had no idea the expense that lawns and gardening would run into
and the time that it took, especially when you start mowing,
when it comes to fertilize, then it would come to raking,
when it comes to making sure that somebody had put the timer on the water.
the one thing that I did notice is that people that have the underground irrigation systems, the sprinkler systems, that was the way to go
if you could do it.
People that were building the new homes that put those in, the only way to go because it was just so convenient.
They would just turn it on
the timer would run
it would water their lawn
they didn't have to worry about it at all.
that was so nice.
we didn't have that luxury,
we were dragging sprinkler around everywhere.
I hope you can find,
I don't know what type of grass grows in the real shady areas.
I remember the guy that was on the radio,
they had a gardener,
I don't know,
the book.
just called TEXAS GARDENING,
it talks about the different grasses to use for the shady areas versus the really sunny areas.
there is a grass that you can use that is shade tolerant,
I don't remember what it is.
it's got a boot, on the front of the book.
It's just a real fancy decorated boot.
It's TEXAS GARDENING.
it talks about, different problems that your lawn can have and how to recognize it
it goes into the full gamut of gardening. everything from flowers to bulbs to perennials to grass to weeds to trees and prune.
one of the things I do remember was when it talked about the grass,
and there being the shade tolerant types of grass,
I think one of them was a blend of two types of grass that they had used.
if it was Raleigh and Saint Augustine what.
Or what it was.
I do remember they had used a blend.
we're going to have to do that because have the shade, the trees,
this is an established and older home that we moved into,
the trees are just so tall
there must be ten or twelve big tall trees out there so that even if its raining, you can go out in our back yard and not get wet .
that's so neat, because so many homes don't have that.
you'll be cool all year around,
in the summer, that's great.
that's what we're looking forward to,
that's what they say the payoff is
It makes the biggest difference,
we ha ,
when you have the big old trees.
the people that moved in next to us, they built a new house on the empty lot
they just had their brand new little trees.
They didn't have any shade .
had people over they had to do it on the patio because it just got too hot during the day.
Too hot,
that's great that you have them.
Are they oaks?
there are all different kinds.
that's even better.
There are some oaks, magnolias, and plum trees, peach trees,
there are some big tall oak trees ...
you have children I take it?
I don't.
You don't?
it's not a very valid topic.
it's not.
Do you have children?
you know how they are at that age, I guess.
you having been ten once,
Once upon a time I was.
I have two dogs,
those are my kids.
we have one.
What kind is it?
A Keeshonden.
huh .
fuzzy little thing.
A what?
A fuzzy little dog.
they're cute.
odd personality,
time we spend with our children.
It seems almost as though children hate it.
Do they?
Time spent with Mom and Dad one of the worst punishments spent on earth to them.
especially when they get into the teenage stage.
I guess.
I remember when I was that age.
parents are a curse that they just have to live with.
we do spend time driving in the mountains,
how nice,
I would love to live up there.
Do you work for T I?
You're working then?
With every passing day we wonder if we will be.
That's what I heard.
I've always thought about maybe transferring up there,
I thought if I do that, I might not have a job
better to be employed.
Especially these days where there is not a job right around the corner.
I know it.
that creates family tensions.
I'm sure it does.
the stepdaughter at home?
You all don't have any other children around there?
I don't have any, children.
how does she feel about going out and doing stuff with you all.
it varies what it is, of course,
Mom and Dad are a curse.
much rather be with friends,
yeah .
friends are cool, parents aren't.
I remember,
I'm sure part of it is a male, female thing,
remember whenever I was growing up, often times spent with my Dad was, just wonderful, go,
go hunting, or go to the races,
any number of things.
we'd have, great times,
it seems that now the bank's not available.
entirely too much time is spent,
my wife and I were wondering what if,
what if's always rough.
we do have our trips
we do have our fun
little girls aren't interested in lot of the same things little boys are or were.
Like fishing and ...
Looking for arrowheads, and ...
My husband will say that he'd like to have a little boy to take hunting and fishing
I said, you can take a little girl hunting and fishing just as easily.
they don't like it.
That's probably right.
there is a difference there.
if my Dad had done that when I was a kid I probably wouldn't have liked it.
I go now, with my husband.
I enjoy it,
girls at that age,
Video games, boys and malls.
Not necessarily in that order,
and friends of course.
that's a little tough for fathers.
I imagine.
Fathers don't even like malls,
they despise shopping.
is that quality time?
I think not.
there is camping
we both enjoy that.
she likes to do that?
Somewhat, yeah,
yeah .
, yeah.
that's good.
Getting up in the mountains and getting away from it all
that's somewhat fun.
She ...
It's ,
what do you think about child rearing?
would you spend time with kids?
Probably doing outdoorsie stuff, and them away from the T V, I guess . And, McDonald's .
always said that if I had a kid they wouldn't know what McDonald's is.
, they learn from their friends,
don't they?
amazingly a lot of times it's real easy.
a lot of times, whenever we head out of town on a trip or something,
it's real easy to swing in there for breakfast.
Breakfast and run.
breakfast is a kind of a funny meal anyway,
It is.
kids eat funny.
This lady in our bass club, we had a tournament yesterday
she was talking about her daughter, said, one week her daughter will, be on a no meat kick,
one week she'll eat nothing but Twix candy bars,
she just eats weird.
little girls are worse about it than little boys.
They ...
They're always wanting to go on a diet or something.
something, yeah.
Go on a diet or have a,
to some extent the public schools, or the schools in general,
influence them,
the eating meat kick.
it's really morally wrong to eat meat or something,
not sure.
Of course, that's not the way I was raised, being raised in West Texas.
is that where you're from?
Born in Denton, raised in Lubbock.
I understand about bass.
. Huh.
is interesting,
will tell you,
Every person out there should have kids, at least once have some they can borrow for a time,
That's the kind I like.
because everyone needs some torture in their lives.
My Mother used to put that curse on my sister.
I hope you have kids just like yourself.
my Grandmother must have put that on my Dad because he got my sister,
she's just like him.
Jenny is a sweet kid.
I'm sure she is.
we do do things,
it's almost like a lot of things that were available to us as children,
to go do,
The money's not available.
I know,
I don't know how people can afford kids.
, we were talking about how much it cost to go to Disney Land.
A couple,
three hundred dollars.
a day or two, not including lodging and food and all that.
I don't see how anyone can afford it.
I understand Six Flags is real expensive now.
I heard it's twenty bucks a whack.
For adults.
That is awful high.
Twenty bucks a whack now.
or twenty one.
at least once you pay your way in there,
yeah .
at Six Flags ...
everything's free except for the food.
food and junk to carry out.
not as bad.
Disney World or Disney Land.
our problem is that, a trip to Six Flags or Disney World or, Disney Land, or God forbid, Disney World, would take forever.
you'd have to pay air fare,
it gets pretty expensive pretty quick.
Rent a car when you get there and all that.
That's why I lucked out,
my Dad worked for Braniff when I was a kid so we got, our air fare free
we got ...
Why don't you go ahead and start.
my hobby is, sewing.
just, started learning how to sew
I've taken some classes
I've made a garments.
Do you sew at all?
I used to,
Did you?
sewed, in high school
when I went to college I think everything in my closet, I had made.
I haven't sewed since then
that's been fifteen years.
I didn't have access to a machine the whole time I was in college.
my sister sewed
she needed the money so I would pay her
she'd make my clothes .
just in the last, ten or twe , I just haven't sewn anything.
get back to it.
clothes are getting so expensive now the stores
quality sometimes so poor that,
really is worth while to sew.
It is, an even back then,
I remember you could make something for, half what it cost to buy
of course, the quality was just exceptional.
Right an,
now it's a little more expensive to make it, because, you start paying the price for the patterns and the material,
it's still such better quality that I think it's worth it.
It certainly is,
the patterns have gone up tremendously, too, the prices for them, you used to could get, a pattern for two or three dollars, now, they're five, six, seven, eight.
You're kidding me.
I'm not.
I can remember paying seventy five cents for a pattern .
cheapest ones now are maybe, or dollars,
six, seven
you get into the Vogues,
they get up into twelve and fifteen and,
Good night.
on like that.
do you have kids and a husband,
are you sewing for a whole family
right now I'm just sewing for myself.
do have two daughters that, grown now though.
I wish that I had started sewing, when they were younger.
it would have helped me out tremendously .
I guess, just, I always, I have always tried to sew
I didn't like the way it looked so I'd never wear anything.
now have bought some, new, sewing equipment.
I bought the Singer machine
it really makes it look professional
I've taken some classes here Dallas.
that always is helpful for starters.
You know you have to have something that kind of gets you on the right track of where you're going.
I know a lot of people where I work make their clothes.
so many people sewing now days.
That's true.
do you do anything el ,
do you knit or crochet for sweaters or anything like that?
I'm not that talented.
N ,
ever been a real craft type person.
I have a sister in law that, if it can be done with your hands, she does it.
She makes things for the kids for Christmas and nephews and nieces
I look at them
I think, God, should be able to do things like this .
I have a sister that crochet real well,
knit, guess I mean knit.
she knits things hats,
and, sweaters, (( )) .
had her first, child, my niece,
my last year of college,
I asked my roommate if she would teach me how to crochet granny squares.
she did,
I crocheted a blanket for my sister's baby,
I started crocheting a king size bedspread for a guy that I was dating at the time.
when we broke things off,
we were supposed to get married when I got out of college.
when we broke things off, I quit crocheting it
I've never picked up a needle since then,
in fact, I think it's still sitting in the top of the closet .
my goodness.
One of these days I keep thinking I'm going to finish it because it would make a really pretty bedspread .
they have the, knitting machines that will do it for you.
Fast .
My problem, I guess is time,
talk to my husband,
we kind of planning for the time eventually when, maybe I can quit work, kids are young.
I have a three and a half and a two year old.
he says
Bev, I think you'll be so bored, because, all you've ever done is work.
I said, but there's so many things I want to do,
I'd like to start sewing again,
I'd like to learn how to do this cross stitch these, knit these things
I think that would be fascinating.
He kind of laughs .
Are you familiar with what a Serger is, the Serger Sewing Machine?
I don't think so.
when we used to sew, we'd sew the seam
we'd finish the edges,
would, trim the seams and finish the edges.
this machine does it all in one step.
You're kidding,
as you're sewing the seam, it's finishing off the inside edge.
it's cutting off the,
there are two knives
it cuts off the, excess seam allowance.
that takes all the work out of it.
really makes it look professional.
how neat.
Especially, on, from the inside, how you look under, under something that you've made
it doesn't really,
the Serger really makes it look professional.
that's neat.
They're pretty expensive.
I like,
I paid about eight hundred dollars for mine,
For the machine,
since I bought it and paid that much for it, I guess I'd might as well get some use out of it.
You have to learn how to do it.
That's right.
I'm going to have to do it.
Otherwise, they hold it over your head forever, right .
Now I bought you that machine .
that sounds really good.
Do you paint or anything like that?
play the piano.
so do I.
you do.
Exc ,
be ,
I have one here,
it's the one that I grew up with,
my folks gave it to me,
a couple years ago when sail,
they sold their home
been sailing,
it's here
I haven't touched one since college, so I kind of am picking it all out again and trying to remember how to do it again.
of course, my kids jump in the middle of it and want to pound on it
I'd love to teach them to play, too.
I'm not great,
I remember it.
I'm not that great either.
I used to be a lot better than I am now.
have played for, the church choir,
I played for the choral club in high school
don't practice a lot anymore,
you get rusty.
You really,
You do,
you do.
I never thought I would get rusty,
I'm rusty now.
figure it takes practice
don't, I say I don't have the time,
that's not true.
By the time I put my kids in bed at night, I don't want to do anything.
worked all day
I come home
I do that,
and, even hobbies and crafts and sewing things like that, think gee, I could do this or that,
I have an hour here.
I don't want to do them sometimes,
I'm too tired.
I try to save that for the weekend.
I need to get better at it though .
sewing does awful lot of time, takes an awful lot of time.
Now the part about sewing that I never liked was laying out the material and the pattern and cutting it out.
somebody would lay it out for me, then I didn't mind cutting it out and sewing it.
I could do that all day long
can remember once in high school, I wanted some extra money,
my mom wanted some pants,
she laid out the material
I cut it and sewed it
she paid me I think two dollars a pair to make her some pants.
hate laying out material and trying to get the most out of the material and,
make sure it's on the right lines and not on the bias.
right on the straight grain,
on the grain of the fabric.
and all that stuff,
It drives me crazy .
that's the part that I don't like, too.
like up the garment itself.
I really like to do that,
cutting and
even the cutting I don't like.
what are some of the other features on this machine?
It sounds wonderful.
that's about it really.
has threads instead of, regular basic two threads.
Is that for designs,
is that for the regular seam in the fabric
can either use three or four of the threads.
the stitch is kind of like a knitting machine, loopers under the bottom
a seam stitch
it's the loopers that form edge, that edge finish.
that's what really makes it look professional.
You can do a lot with the Serger though.
You can make, piping and cording
you can use all kinds of different, textures of thread.
it has the ability to do just about any type of sewing you want to do.
have to use it in combination with a sewing machine.
You can't throw your sewing machine away.
you need it to do things like button holes,
and, seams that on the sewing machine.
the Serger is not a sewing machine, itself.
It's something that goes with it?
Like an attachment
it's a, it's a machine,
it's not exactly a sewing machine
sew the seam and trim the edges and all that stuff,
there things that a regular sewing machine does that it doesn't do. you can't top stitch with it.
you can't do top stitching,
a things that you just can't do with it.
It will also do a rolled edge,
it's just so versatile,
I rem ,
I'm going to have to go check it out.
That's just something I hadn't heard of
what do you think? .
I think we're overtaxed to the hilt.
taxed on taxes
most all government entities are just trying to give us a state income tax for those who don't have it that is.
we don't have one yet,
eventually they may try to push it through.
they have n ,
I didn't realize they had no state tax in Texas.
state income tax.
that's great, because they don't have it in Florida.
In New York they have it.
like I say, I'm in New York
we have a state tax as well.
that just cuts even more.
I think what needs to be done is they need to control their spending habits.
think that I,
I wouldn't be so upset about the amount of taxes paid if it weren't for the fact that go to any place.
don't see it going to any place where it belongs.
I think if it were to be, *
it were to be spent in the right way I think I wouldn't be so upset about it, *
given not spent properly, I think it's a major problem.
we're really overburdened from federal, state and local,
that it takes such a size out of your paycheck that there's not a whole lot you can always do with your paycheck.
that's certainly true.
what is it they were just talking about, sort of middle income people,
what winds up happening is, for instance having kids, they wind up having kids as a deduction
the deduction is so little for kids that they wind up having to pay more in taxes than it costs to raise a kid for the year or something.
I think tha ,
so they want
most of the politicians understand this.
very good at doing what they're supposed to be doing.
they're kind of put into a trap of being out there to please the special interest groups as well.
I think the only way that can be changed for us to get better tax revenue that's fairness and all, is for us to limit their terms.
by doing so, they're not obligated to anybody.
I agree,
I agree.
I don't know how we're going to do that right away though,
in general though that taxes are doing to us is, it's just taking, a bite out of our savings.
just not sure it going, to the right places.
one thing if it were taking a bite out of your savings and then you were getting it all back when you got older.
I'm not convinced, tha , that Social Security is doing as well as it should that, those people who need it for welfare and so forth, who really need it for welfare, not the eighty five to ninety percent of them who don't need it. But the real people who really need it, should be getting it
instead I think it's going to the wrong places.
I believe the Social Security tax is a great (( )) scheme.
You think so?
right now, they're robbing from it to pad the federal deficit.
I know
that scares the hell out of me.
If, most company, C E O s were to do that within their private company, they'd be in jail.
how are we letting them get away with it.
they're the ones who make the laws. *
who's going to yell at them, *
it'd be nice if we sort of, as one, band together
and, performed a citizens arrest, I guess.
To see if we could sort of clean them up
I don't know if we can do that or not.
A lot of people have become too complacent believe everything is just the norm as to the way things are going and feel absolutely helpless to oppose a lot of the situations going on,
in the taxing system.
I agree,
I agree.
you said, I wonder, it's certainly not going to be a slow change process
I wonder if it'll ever be a change process.
get discouraged when I think about all the things that I think are wrong .
all those things that really could be changed aren't.
tax is one of those things that just sort of sits way up there on the list.
I don't kno ,
I have no idea what to do about it.
there's no quick solution, or no sure fire easy answer.
It's just going to take, really, a combination effort, of the majority of the American people to come to a decisive answer,
or vote to limit the way it's spent.
we have no say so as to where the money goes in the first place.
We don't,
the only say so we have is supposedly by electing people who we think are going to vote one way of another.
they are controlled, or pretty much do what they want to do.
I've never quite understood that. even though, never been, sort of politically minded,
it's never been clear to me as to sort of, how Congressmen can just sort of go ahead and vote their own conscience as their own ideas when clearly their constituency back them up on anything,
often times that will happen.
they feel to, any wrath
Right .
occurred so many times that they figure people will usually forget and don't think about it when the election time arises.
generally it does work out that way.
They do forget, because everybody,
think of what happens is one who made that supposed mistake turns around
or her opponent can say look, they did this.
they can turn around and say my opponent did this.
it becomes, a general battle of the sort of the election of the lesser of two evils, I think,
I don't know,
unhappy with it
sort of semifortunate right now,
I'm a graduate student,
I don't make that much,
what I make isn't taxed very highly because I'm still in school.
when you get out into the real world then you'll know.
my, my wife has a real job
when I get her job, look at her paycheck, I'm just floored when I see how little of it we're actually allowed to keep.
Especially around bonus time.
Bonus time,
you have a bonus?
wife does.
My wi ,
I don ,
graduate students don't get bonuses.
We're lucky to get paychecks the way I figure.
you're taxed on the bonuses too,
wife is taxed on her bonus as well,
big chunk of her bonus check
her bonus isn't that much,
they tax it as,
guess they tax it as if that were her weekly check or something.
she gets destroyed on her bonus check.
she works in sales.
a good portion of salary quarterly bonuses.
sales is lucrative
then you're paying really high taxes when you're doing a lucrative job.
she's not entirely sales, so as lucrative as one would hope,
keeps us supported temporarily,
until I can get a real salary and then get taxed more.
I don't know,
I guess at this point in time we're just sort of going to have to live with it, and hope that it gets better .
I have, about said I can think of to say.
Same here,
tough topic
it's a rather touchy topic at that,
I beli ,
I do agree with you, wholeheartedly.
that's great.
It's been a pleasure talking with you.
You too,
Thanks for call.
have a good day.
You too.
Bye bye.
he did really decide to go?
to Williams College in Massachusetts?
I'm familiar with it,
And that he was trying to decide between University of Pennsylvania and Williams,
it was a very difficult choice
must know, is he interested in law or medicine,
he must have a definite profession in mind.
No, *
that's one of the reasons why he chose Williams
that it has solid liberal arts, *
Medium size,
aren't they?
About two thousand, *
Is he excited?
Very excited,
yes, *
I can,
I have another son who's at their chief rival, Amherst College. *
while they're east coast, I don't know anything about their football,
there you go.
they're really very strong academic rather than, big sports,
you at?
We're outside of, Washington in Maryland.
How about you?
I'm in, suburban Dallas.
do you have children in,
I don't,
I have a husband .
We don't have any kids yet.
About all I can say is I guess about picking schools, I guess, if you don't know what you're going to do, liberal arts program is a good idea.
one of advices we've given our children is that you can always learn a job
This is true,
what you can't learn, on a job, is a good solid education.
the humanities, the history, yeah,
That's right,
the Renaissance man
no .
if you get that you can,
if you do well, learn a job,
if they learn the job and they can go into graduate school
That's exactly right.
usually a company, subsidize,
That's right.
the advice we gave to them
was, number one, visit the colleges
is true,
that you're thinking about
describe first of all, the size school that you might be interested in
if you want to go away,
do you want to go away,
how far from home do you want to be.
What do you want in a college.
Now my son is a national level competitive swimmer
he wanted to swim in school,
he did not want to be in a swim factory.
he wouldn't have gone to something like where we're at, in Austin, Texas, University of Texas,
That's right,
that's the University of Texas at Austin, or
Stanford or something like that
Texas Aqua ,
so he didn't even consider those.
I think the other thing is, too, I know I went to a, city high school in Chicago
a lot of the kids weren't as fortunate as say, my brother and I were,
economics was the choice
sounds like your son has academically the standing to get into that type of school.
He is very, very strong academically,
we've just,
he had to look to see
what kind of environment he liked,
yet did wind up having to make a choice.
He did apply to a large, large group,
University of Penn,
I'm originally from Pennsylvania.
University of Pennsylvania,
It's got about nine thousand undergraduate.
that's strong,
it's a little bit, more diverse ,
does have the under,
that's total undergraduate with five hundred graduate school, so that the, the college of arts and sciences is, I guess about four thousand.
At Williams or Pennsylvania?
At Williams,
At Pennsylvania.
At Pennsylvania.
how large is Williams?
Williams is an undergraduate school only
it's a total of two thousand.
that's not bad.
he knew the feeling because my other son is at Amherst which is
Which is a lot,
fifteen hundred
he had visited his brother at Amherst and knew
that he liked the environment
he did go on college visits,
he liked,
That's the thing to do,
not having any children, my husband was an Ohio State person,
that has something either the first or second largest student population, fifty thousand.
Combined (( )) .
it's large,
both boys had decided no, that they did not want that.
that is too much,
can only say it's strange your son picked those kinds of college because I spent a year at Bennington in Vermont,
so you,
twenty years ago .
Showing my age,
did you ever eat at the Blue Bin Diner?
Oh my God,
where are you from,
let's not talk about that .
we've been there when (( )) whose gone up there.
It's, in that area.
I just can't say enough about it.
(( ))
we went
he was, impressed by the clean air
met the students at both schools
he liked them.
my husband's an engineer and liberal arts background with, a graduate degree in a technical field
will get him much further than say strong, business administration degree than with another M B A
That's it.
on top of it.
The thing is a person really knows very early on
that they want to go
they usually,
in a technical field, probably good a school
they usually don't.
with a good technical program,
if you're going into,
if engineering is the thing then you've got to at least take engineering.
who does.
I think,
That's right.
I think all, I think the majority of people just don't know.
he looked at criteria such as location, size of school
he didn't apply to any school further,
the furthest away was Bowdoin, in Maine which is about twelve hours.
That's still pretty far though.
a lot of kids just don't even want to go,
that was the furthest and then Kenyon in Ohio which was about six and a half hours
Williams is about seven.
that's not too bad.
he, so it wasn't,
then the University of Pennsylvania is two hours from here by train
and then Bucknell in mid state Pennsylvania.
(( )) Yeah,
he will enjoy Williams I think and (( )) is a good academic,
he will,
it came down as came,
he's been talking to them
he came down
one of the things that he said is, he went to Pennsylvania this weekend
he had an absolutely marvelous time
he had a great time
then he said, it was such a good time that I almost got the feeling that their emphasis is on having fun.
That could very well be
he said it almost back ,
I think it backfired.
he's developing internal instincts right now.
That's good because
I'm sure what he said was true, that, you,
that's one of the reasons I went to (( )) ,
Kenyon, a good choice.
I went,
I was supposed to,
I spent a year in Vermont, my freshman year,
it was just too far away,
it was too different
the level of income of lot of the students
their attitudes was just, beyond my,
in terms of drugs, et cetera, which I thought was shocking.
Of course, that period too was probably difficult.
you're right
then I went,
I did,
my advice to him,
was that, he had to really decide what he wanted out of college.
He had to look at himself.
in a larger school he had to realize that if he was going to screw around it, he could probably slip
it wouldn't be caught up until it was too late where in a smaller school
where, especially in a Kenyon or a Williams, where you see the professors around town all the time, you skip class in the morning and they see you,
you're going to get a little bit more input than
a swim coach is going to be right on top of you,
he will know the professors in a small,
I don't know how to put this either in this way
it doesn't sound like your sons would need this
I just think the other thing is with the way a lot of the youth is today, I think the refinement that they get
I don't mean specifically (( )) or culture but just what you're saying, just a solid background
because I just don't think at that age I just don't think that young people know what they want to do.
That's right,
that's right.
it's just the personal contact where if you need help
That's right.
he had,
I told him to look to yourself.
Are you the kind of person that will go into a large college and if the professor says I've got office hours but you really don't feel that you know him because you're in a class of a hundred
Right (( )) .
that you're really going to look him up
if it's a class of fifteen
This is very, very,
and you need help, you know that it's much easier to do it and especially in the large schools they have lectures
even though they may break it up into smaller groups Penn is known for having
They have video lectures.
graduate assistance teaching.
Video lectures.
They have graduate assistants to teach the smaller groups.
This is true,
that is very ironic too that your son just made the,
did he just make the decision today?
(( )) he made the decision, I'd say, about, an hour and a half ago .
How funny .
that's so funny.
in fact, he had just an hour before that two, recent graduates from Kenyon spent close to two hours talking with him
That's funny.
were really nice,
he said that they didn't tell him anything that he didn't know,
they helped confirm his decision that a smaller school was better.
It was easy for him to rule out.
He knew what he didn't want
that's exactly,
Now is your other,
we're talking about what you think,
obviously you're experiencing it.
(( )) .
Did your other son,
My other son is just as happy as a bed bug.
A clam.
the moment he knew, decided early on that Amherst was the school.
He's a classical guitarist
also got into the graduate school of music as an undergraduate
for classical guitar,
he decided he was going to go to the,
The smaller and the,
the smaller now, and then graduate school later.
they'll do fine in their studies,
I'm sure they'll go on to graduate school,
he's minoring in English,
he had thought about economics,
he took a couple of courses in economics and decided that wasn't,
now *
is this early admissions?
going to be a junior.
He'll be, he's finishing his sophomore year
he's double majoring.
he's, yeah,
sounds like you have two talented sons.
the advice we give is to not limit yourself, especially this, go to a school where you're not forced to make too many irrevocable decisions your first year or two.
I think, and a lot of people talk about,
it's not the economics I solely zeroed in on,
I think about the tuition level and what exactly are you getting in return
I think that a lot of people shy away from the smaller because of that,
I think it's rather sad,
one of the things we said is that they should pick the college,
this was our advice, too, irrespective of the cost. That somehow we would manage.
You are wonderful parents .
we place a real high priority on education in our family.
I agree,
my husband and I,
in fact, I'm taking my L S A T s,
I'm thirty something
that's wonderful.
and taking my L S A T s on June tenth.
that's great.
The point being, and your sons will learn this from you, that, no matter what age you are, you can learn
That's right,
that's exactly,
it sounds like they're going to, they're,
I guess I'll start,
one, big thing that, the advise that I would give to a parent to give to his or her child is to child experience college in a kind of general sense.
I like large colleges because I went to University of Texas at Austin,
they have fifty thousand students there.
I feel like that now to a small college that only had a couple of thousand that I wouldn't gotten as much exposure to different people and languages, different cultures, and things like that just by being around those fifty thousand students.
That's interesting,
I went to a smaller school,
of probably three thousand, thirty five hundred.
thought that was the best experience in that we had more one on one since we seemed to know everyone on campus,
we had a broad spectrum of languages and cultures and backgrounds,
and so forth,
I thought it was wonderful to be a bigger fish and not so much a number,
one of fifty thousand, I was one of three thousand,
different perspectives,
it sounds like we were both kind of looking at the same thing.
could see, I could see that point, I could see how it would be.
I'm sure your classes were a lot smaller, because we would have everyone has to take, hundreds of students in this class,
you were a number.
I don't know,
I'm thinking in a sense of, just being exposed to more.
It just seems like in a larger college exposed to so many more people from all over the world,
I'm sure a lot of people come to, small colleges also but just that they're more the different cultures there,
I'm just saying that I think that big,
That's one thing to definitely consider.
I think, students now would probably be afraid of a smaller college,
a lot of the students that I talked to even here in Waco they go to Baylor,
they're considering going to Baylor,
they're also considering going to U T Austin
one of the big no nos is because of the fifty thousand students,
I have to tell them that I live in Waco
it's a large city, ,
I can still function, , in my own kind of area, in my own group.
I have a job,
I have my friends,
I'm really not concerned about the entire city, so when you go to university, you're not as concerned , about the entire university,
but your group of friends, your classes, your interests, your clubs and things like that.
I think that's probably keyed to me is not so much the size the school,
but is the particular needs of the students
whereas some would immediately feel very comfortable in this, larger university setting,
some of the students, teaching school would not have been comfortable with that.
They needed, at least at first,
they needed a smaller setting was more like family where they could get one on one,
teachers, professors and so forth, and then after a year or two move on to a little bit bigger pond when they had a little more self confidence built up, it's just in a bigger setting,
maybe to me the key would be is a needs,
school or schools can best meet needs besides education you can expect all of them with, accreditat , accreditation to give the education *
it's these other things that you and I keying off on,
are really more of an education that,
they're the things that don't show up in,
On paper.
That's right,
that's right.
one important thing that I think about school.
not a kind a person that,
I didn't,
was kind of a B student, I guess you'd say,
I didn't really,
I was tur ,
I strived to be an A student
it wasn't a real priority.
To priority was just being as worldly as I could possibly be , getting into as many organizations as I possibly could,
one other point I was going to make, was that see that probably if I had gone to a smaller school, I would probably have more friends,
because said, everybody knows everybody,
you probably come out of it knowing, and by friends, contacts for when you get out of school,
walk into a company and see someone you went to school with,
more so at a small college then a large college.
You may have gone to school with them
know them.
I guess, let me think of another important thing to look at when you look into college,
now I've been out for,
older than you.
I've been out for twenty one years.
I was looking at an annual last night,
a question,
I went to a small private school,
it was church related.
I got to looking at my class of sixty nine,
I realized that even though that school's two hundred miles from here
I've lived in other states and done other things for the past twenty years, where I go to church now, there are five other people that went to school at the same time in the same class as I,
neat to know that we have that contact that goes back that some of the same memories if not the same education in,
we weren't all out to be teachers whatever
we didn't have the same classes,
we had a common thread,
something that still ties us together,
twenty odd years later.
That's great.
it's, it's kind of neat just knowing that those kinds of things, those are what I carry beyond that piece of paper that allows me to be an exempt at T I,
I have something more important to me than that.
That's great,
that's great.
I, and, when I first,
I've been out of college (( only )) two years now, , so it's still pretty fresh on my memory,
now that I'm out,
when I went into school, my parents told,
go back to sister now is in college,
my father was really interested in getting her in a school that would look good diploma, etcetera,
and so forth,
I kept pushing her towards just kind of U T or a larger school,
it was just a big conflict between us because my father wanted the academics
I wanted her to get the life experience,
out of it,
it was,
she went the academic way because she's a straight A student, which is,
I was going to ask who won .
that's probably, wants anyway
that was the big deal
that case, regardless of what you or your father pushed for it sounds like she was going for what she needed,
and finding a school met her specific requirements,
made the best fit for her.
another point is that, parent should tell their child to be to give their child the leeway to choose their school,
not so much choose the school for them but, kind of guide them along but let them more or less choose what they need and what they're going to do.
I think it helps,
now my grandfather was going to pay if I went to, what's now U T Arlington,
because it was there in my hometown,
I could live at home.
I chose to go to another school
even though he was pleased that it was a church related school, he was not willing to pay any at all even the same amount of money,
I think I value education more because I had to work for it.
I knew all along that's what I wanted,
though I had to buck the family in order do what I needed to do.
that was pretty courageous .
my mother's support that got me through it,
that and ten years loans ,
after I got out .
dealing with the loans right now,
Sounds familiar,
it's very fresh in your memory.
yes, *
month .
That memory just seeps back in my mailbox.
sorry about that (( Tanya )) .
I guess I'll get over it.
I'm sure it was worth it though.
nothing else because I work in training at T I now,
if nothing else just those experiences beyond including your educational classes that help give you the self esteem to do and achieve,
whatever you set your mind on,
made the right choice in going to a school that met all of your needs you potential to do whatever you wanted.
do want, when you do finally graduate what you need the most.
I'm finding out now that what I'm needing the most now is not smarts, not what I can do on paper, it's stamina, courage, (( )) ,
Young lady,
words, it,
you have gotten your education then,
I'm needing to rely on myself,
I think I learned a lot of that in school too.
maybe this is a fantasy we can to talk about any kind of car,
we want here .
I want a Rolls Royce and a Cadillac .
that sounds like a great deal to me .
You have great aspirations .
let's see
just bought, a seventy three Mercedes that we have restored
that's great.
I'm a hobbyist too,
I like to work on cars too.
it has really been a lot of fun.
we found some guys that actually, worked for a Mercedes dealership
they also repair them for other the people on their off time
that's good.
so have redone that thing from stem to stern, inside, outside, we've redone the body, repainted it, detailed it, so, I really haven't thought much past that it seems like,
I don't know if I'll ever want another new car again,
Was you,
why didn't,
say buy it
they didn't necessarily say buy it new they just said,
Maybe not.
what would you buy,
that's true.
don't know it just seems like, for what we've put into it I feel like that's something that might retain it's value a little bit more,
a restored,
vehicle great,
certainly if it's an old Mercedes will be good.
did decide as,
we wanted it to be as authentic as possible
we did break down and put a C D player in it,
that's great.
that's not quite authentic,
at any rate was did want,
I'd passed up on one and put a sunroof in it,
you all,
I had to stop there.
done a lot more,
when I talk about working on cars I sure don't do that.
of course, we do it ourselves
like I said, we were just lucky to find these guys that do it,
just weren't really expensive,
that is good,
acknowledgeable people.
they work on it,
the things that can be done here they just come here to our home work on it or work on it,
That's amazing.
really, it's really been nice.
do all my own work,
have Chevies,
that's all I've got right now
I've got three Chevy V Eights.
a Chevy, I'm an American car person,
You're an American car person.
I do like Mercedes.
have always had an car
I had a real, real bad experience with the Cougar that I had,
it was an eighty two Cougar,
I don't know,
I think it just soured me on it for some reason because I had trouble with it starting,
the engine blew up in it,
I had to replace the engine when it was only two years old so,
thought what the heck,
we'll try something different
I'm not a Ford person and never have been as a kid,
I do like the V Eight engines
I think the,
I went to the auto show with my daughter recently,
down in Dallas
the American cars are far superior to the Japanese in styling, engines,
right now,
I'm not saying that they were,
a couple of years ago.
I would there's,
I see a (( marked )) improvement,
as far as, what I've heard about performance and such, so, hopefully it'll stay that way,
I would hate to see the American car industry suffering more than it already has
even though right now I'm not driving an American car,
I think,
what do we want to buy,
would like to,
put it in that category, by a Cadillac
I wouldn't,
buy a new one
of course, if I had the money I'd be happy to by a new one,
I do look for a one year old vehicle,
with twenty some odd miles or whatever twenty thousand miles,
twenty thousand,
that's what my parents are avid Cadillac freaks.
They had,
I think mother drives the SeVille now I guess it's a couple of years old,
she had a SeVille before that that had the odd backs that was,
I remember those.
that was so,
final just wore out
purchased it,
I remember how many years they had that car,
she loved the styling of it.
That she may want to save, if doesn't have it anymore.
she sold it
since they don't make them anymore,
could be turned into a classic,
I know.
ten, fifteen years,
she kept telling herself that
it's sort of a (( bone of contention )) between she and my dad because my dad said just let me take it down there and find out what's wrong with it,
he came back with a new car .
he wanted (( new one )) ,
I think he had an ulterior motive
he could just see, dollar signs starting to flip by as far as repairs went
really are nice cars,
I'm still a full size person,
I like a full size Cadillac,
want one of those,
I think they are, a classic
certainly not,
they haven't changed in about, twenty years,
they'll eventually phase them out
I sure would like one ever those, within the next five years,
or so.
it seems funny you how within the last couple of years cars have gotten bigger again,
scaled everything down so much
I've never owned a really large car,
I don't know,
I think that Cougar was the biggest thing I ever had
even the Japanese cars are bigger too
I've never had a Jap ,
now the Lexus are very nice looking cars,
I've never had,
a Japanese car,
had friends who had them,
I think they're a lot over ra ,
they're is just no styling to them,
you can't tell one Japanese car from the other,
That's true,
because they all a like,
that's true.
I don't mean that as a joke,
they really all look a like,
the (( ))
I don't have any idea car it is,
What is what,
until I look at it to see what it is,
I think they have not, lead the field in styling,
they do have sports cars
the price is way more,
you can get a Cadillac for,
the same price as you can get a small Japanese,
it's ridiculous now.
I know that,
sort of always felt like with Buicks it seems like all Buicks to me look alike ,
I guess it just, seems to me they're all the same shape.
I have a very good friend that has a Buick Regal
had, she's got way offer a hundred thousand miles on it
that's what she's going to buy again
I'm like, please, it looks exactly the same as this old one that you've got
I guess it's in the eyes of the beholder,
I suppose.
you're interested you ought to go to the next auto show.
look at the Cadillacs
there were some Cadillacs that I didn't even realize they made
they were,
just styled so differently,
they were standard Cadillacs
they really looked beautiful.
Are they still,
are what they're,
what they have out for the next year, is everything still pretty square,
it seems like the Cadillacs is one of the few makers that are still making really, can't think of a car that they make are the than maybe the (( Alliance )) .
convertibles now in the Cadillac,
they have that new,
it's not the big, Fleetwood, the one I want,
which is been the same in the last twenty years,
there's another one that has came out in the last two year, not the Seville,
the Seville is totally different,
now at the auto show they had fantastic looking cars.
Now was this,
was this recently?
it was a month or so ago.
I have,
they have it every year.
usually when I see the new cars it's during the fair when I go to the auto building at the State Fair
that's usually when I see anything,
now this was, in it downtown in the, Convention Center
I see.
they had all the cars
they had Japanese and German cars,
they had the full (( range )) ,
new cars that weren't even out
they had, a new Chevy Suburban,
that big, big one that was,
they didn't have a price on it,
nor did they know had a it would cost,
it had a microwave in it and everything,
my word.
it was,
they had several futuristic cars.
That's wild,
you hear about things like that
you think that can't possibly be done,
it just,
I know.
that's just too weird.
I like engines
they had a lot of
displayed engines,
you could tell,
see the inside of them or whatever.
sold me in buying a new car,
certainly interested in buying a new car
again American cars were for superior in styling and,
new engines,
somebody's finally woken up,
I thing so, because they've been making these four cylinder and six cylinder engines for a while *
I think that, would definitely buy,
again there's the question are we in the market,
I could buy anything,
if I could fine, *
was really crazy about Jags for a while
the convertible, had a X J S or something like that,
thought that's a dream car,
you really would have to be a dream car because the repair bills are supposedly just constant,
I haven't work on them myself so go to the shop,
I am the kind of engineer
I've always done it myself
that's good that you can.
I've got three of them
I can't remember one,
I think I had one someone welded a muffler on for me,
in a years time,
that's great.
I think that's the only thing of the three vehicles that I've in it just the welding on
like I said I don't do that
I think it takes a talent to do that,
husband is, engineer
he cannot,
maybe he's just doesn't want to mess with it
that's might be part of it,
say forget it we'll just take it in,
and get it taken care it.
He drives,
drives a Honda.
noticed that when I was a kid,
I was wasn't a mechanical engineer
I worked my way through college as a mechanic
I learned early from,
fifteen on,
and dropped it for a long time when,
when after I got out of college and,
then picked it up again later on
now again, I've got three vehicles
get in them and just go to the shop at you will,
thing that when you would consider,
when I go out to think about a new car or buy another car, I don't think about, is this engine that I can work on or that,
my husband can work on or whatever,
pretty lucky in that respect
I'm keeping Chevy engines,
because that's what I know,
That's when you know,
in fact, I stock the same part,
I'm a little stock,
if you,
brought your Chevy to me probably have some parts,
for it right now, .
That's pretty good,
it's really been funny because we have been you are own contractors kind of with this car
when I say we have redone everything I mean we have done everything,
that's great,
I've always wanted to that too.
it's really been so interesting the people you meet because, my husband Carl has called all over the country,
he's gotten these catalogs try ,
it's really more difficult to find these vintage parts when you might think this is for a seventy three,
I can imagination,
I guess, I'll start out,
that is, I don't know what section of the public school system they're talking about, whether it's the first eight grades, the high school, or colleges.
I have mixed views on all three of them.
lower grades, K through seven?
I should imagine the lower grades,
what's, what's certainly drawn everyone's attention to that is the fact that, many of the inner city and, I guess what we'd call, ghetto or poorer districts,
including rural districts, don't seem to be able to produce the students that, many, manufacturing and other,
enterprises want.
read properly, do math,
properly, and conform to what employers want.
that's got everybody excited.
High schools, I'm not too sure.
It seems that high schools at least produce candidates, although I have great misgivings about the S A T s, that go on to a variety of colleges.
It seems a great deal of our public colleges have foreign students in them, from, a myriad of nations,
also, I think that, a certain percentage of, the student,
or fairly decent graduate, I should say.
I just read some things recently where, in general basically, they're fifty per cent foreign .
I didn't realize it was that high.
just about f ,
when you consider,
when you consider,
especially in technical areas, science,
engineering and computers.
that's what I was going to point out, I think it mostly is that technical,
especially in those areas, it's, it's almost fifty per cent foreign, forty eight per cent,
that involves both Canadian,
and, European, Middle Eastern, Far Eastern,
think, I think I have similar views,
that's, where our elementary grades,
I have a friend school teacher,
she said that pat the kids down, because they bring guns to school.
She teaches in the city,
of Baltimore,
that must be an inner school.
I just read
amazing article,
in about Baltimore,
which, went on to talk about,
I don't know,
I thought it was rather slanted in favor of the mayor, or the politicians
I do know a few people and have been,
have done some business up in Baltimore,
it seemed to me that that didn't flower too well.
They talked about individual cases of people trying hard,
it was very difficult.
I, I think, if I was going to fault it,
if looking to carry on a conversation,
that way, there's a couple of things that really bother me,
I think when I learned the other day, that,
now, watches seven point two hours of television a day,
and that school children, are not far off that mark with six point eight.
I don't know what school children, what year that is.
that's a hell of a lot time to be sitting in front of the tube.
kids can't read,
it's really,
you know by the time,
my wife teaches, middle school.
they can't,
you're close to the subject.
by the time they get there, they can't read.
they can't read anything.
yet, you know I have grandchildren,
I have grandchildren in various parts of the country,
of course, I can't speak to the rural or poorer inner city schools,
these kids go to a f ,
they live in a fairly nice upper scale neighborhood,
they seem to be doing extraordinarily well.
I quiz them
I talk to them,
read well,
they do everything well.
I think part of the environment.
I think probably the work that children, your children are doing, ,
that, that could be very well true.
she can tell,
she can tell, when they have kids come in for,
they meet with all of the parents,
she can tell before a parent comes in, normally,
give or take, eighty, ninety,
per cent, what the parents are going to be like when they come in, and the responses the parents will give back.
No kidding.
I guess understand that.
However, I'm a product of the New York City public school system from fifty years ago,
maybe not that long ago,
always felt I didn't get a real good education grammar schools and part of high school,
I lived in New England at the time,
I sent all my children to prep school.
I was f ,
have that much money
we struggled
we did it
success that they had in their education was due to the low student teacher ratio.
it's probably very true.
I think a formula that could be applied everywhere,
except it must cost a heck of a lot of money if you do,
it in public school.
surprisingly, because you put such a commitment on education,
your children probably could have gone to schools with, a higher student teacher ratio,
and still done well, because when they would come home, you and your wife,
would say, what did you do today,
let's sit down and read together.
that, that must be,
if that's,
I think we both agree on that, then, then a parent,
it's parental.
parental involvement has to be there.
I guess you got to take them away from the tube also.
is, I don't really know how to resolve this,
is the, incredible, emphasis on sports, where enormous amounts of money are spent,
it seems to me that could be more spent somewhere else.
what's really funny is that been some research, because I'm a,
I'm a college professor,
a lot of the research shows that like, Georgetown,
while Hewing was playing at Georgetown,
and they were winning,
endowment to the university, in other words, money that could to everything, everything, and normally gets directed away from sports, realistically, a lot of the, was, was probably, two thirds, I guess it's now two thirds of what it was when they were national champions.
In other words, while they're national champions,
people donate more money.
Average human beings like you and I, average Joes, that make a decent salary,
Ri ,
that are a graduate of the school,
send big bucks, couple hundreds of dollars,
thousands of people,
you say other things than sports, though.
normally it's because of the sports.
I know,
they don't just send it to the new stadium,
the sports brings in the money.
when Georgetown was number one,
guess they're ,
their money that was donated to them from companies,
from business people, from graduates, whatever,
was up into, twenty million dollars,
now it's down to fourteen million.
During that time period, in other words,
I never thought of that benefit, yeah.
their income has slow ,
giving and other funds have slowly dropped since then.
never thought,
of that benefit,
the consequence,
I guess what I'd have to say about that, is,
there can only be one champion .
amazing the way,
now that's big time.
Isn't that something, though,
I didn't realize that.
smaller schools aren't like that,
the big time schools show that.
you're right,
think the emphasis on sports,
as a,
I'm a former athlete in a sense,
I swam,
swimming never gets much glory, so it really doesn't matter.
Mark Spitz made a lot of money on it.
That's true,
that's true,
you know they still,
back this year,
didn't he,
he didn't make it.
He didn't make it,
would have liked it would have, though,
I think, realistically you read the,
the research studies,
I don't think he would have made it simply because he was trying to swim, the research shows that distance running,
so I would assume distance swimming might be similar, that,
he was good at distance, Spitz, as a swimmer,
I can remember that,
distance strength and endurance, or whatever, sort of starts to peak at about twenty eight, twenty nine, thirty.
That's why some of your long distance runners,
were in their early thirties,
he's was trying to make it in the sprinter's event,
most of them,
are under twenty five.
also read, I,
we're getting off the subject here a bit,
do want to add this to that, because was quite interested in that myself,
I read where, the reason that he had to do this in the sprint events is that national television wouldn't pay for the distance events,
they didn't think they could capture the excitement to get sponsors,
you're kidding.
if you brought just the f ,
here he comes down the finish line,
where they could put it in one segment,
and I guess, capture the whole thing for some sponsor.
Let me ask you another question.
an athlete, I just hate that.
Go head,
you teach
I know, when I went to college, went to summer school,
I thought my idea of it was, finish early, I just enjoyed some of the subjects that I was taking
I had the ability go in summer school,
take those subjects,
what that leads me,
my next thought is, I understand there's a lot of talk now about extending the school year which seems inordinately short anyway,
compared to the Japanese,
or the Germans.
how do you think that would work in grammar schools
I think, some sense, what I would do before I would extend a school year, is I would make it better. Before I would continue the agony,
that's right .
something you have to consider, too, because I know
as a former high school teacher,
I know that from right now,
we're going to talk about lawn and garden today.
where do you work at
do wish to discuss that?
I, I'm in,
I live in, Richardson,
we're neighbors.
Okay .
but grew up in, Iowa on a farm with a considerably different philosophy in terms of lawn and garden
Hi .
Can you hang on just a minute?
Thank you .
I have no idea.
He didn't broadcast.
Thank you.
I'm sorry.
Go ahead.
growing up familiar with here, when I get a chance I listen to that Neil Sperry and do that .
I do all the time.
I do all the time.
I get a lot of good tips from him.
I have his book, too.
Don't do any,
any gardening in the sense of, vegetable gardening
Not in Texas.
tried some, tried some different,
flowers, bushes and stuff,
and, lawn service.
There was one when,
we, when we bought the house
we just continued with them for a long time and then switched to a different one,
in terms of the fertilizing and,
weed control,
mainly leave that up to them.
What about you?
I had a lawn service one year,
I thought phooey, I'm going to do it myself because I figured up the cost
I said, huh ,
I can do it much cheaper and better.
what I did, I switched to liquid,
I do it with an applicator with my hose,
it's so much easier than taking that lawn spreader and walking all over
the territory.
I was surprised how easy it was.
I thought, I'm going to do this all the time.
I found,
I've got some problems with, two trees in my front yard,
I took them to a certified, nurseryman the other day,
do you know what he told me I needed to do?
Which is,
a ,
it's just unreal.
He said I needed to pull every leave off the tree,
the tree is fifteen feet high,
it probably has about ten thousand leaves on it
he told me I needed to pull every leaf off and then spray it with this chemical that he said I should purchase.
I thought, unreal,
this is unreal.
I think I'll get my son in law to do that for me, if he will.
. what kind of a,
is this some sort of a disease,
is it a pest?
it's a disease that it's got,
I don't know,
what happened to it,
what kind
it, ,
what kind of trees are they?
one is a maple,
one is, ,
a maple,
I would much prefer,
I think it's not a native Texan tree.
really do well are the ones that are on the city property,
they don't,
get any care,
they're cedar elm,
they're just beautiful.
these things that you pamper,
some people have really a green thumb,
although I don't have too serious a problem,
I don't know if it was from the late freezes that were, or the early freezes we had, that caused this tree damage,
Sperry said, that's what happened to the Crepe Myrtles,
the last two years that, are looking at all the freeze damage from the prior two years.
I kind of think that maybe that, happened to these large trees that I have.
I really hate to lose them,
that's one of the hazards I guess of, having yard.
one thing that very poor luck our yard trees
trees there when we moved in,
had been put in by the developer when he built the house,
he just put in whatever was cheapest that he could claim was a tree I think.
the quick growing,
And, figured up last night,
there were seven different trees various kinds and sizes in the yard when we moved in,
we got one left at this point,
a couple of them
lost to, to, freezes between, eighty three then, a year ago we lost, another one.
Can I pick your brain about how you got rid of those trees?
are they still there,
did you cut them down ground level,
did you pull them,
up by the roots,
how did you get rid of them?
d ,
don't know how to get rid of these big trees, because one has a circumference of about ten inches,
didn't ha , we didn't have any that were that,
that big when they, went.
them, blew over
terms of getting them down.
I don't want
stubs in my lawn.
you still have to ,
Now one that, the one that we lost, the last one that we lost year ago
until then, they hadn't been big enough
what I just used a hand saw and sawed them off
The base?
as close,
To the ground?
close to ground level as I could,
and then, got s ,
got some chemical that drill holes and pour in that helps ,
I see
helps rot the,
tr ,
a stump killer.
stump ki ,
stump killer, and rotter,
this last one had a fair sized root
some guy was doing a job in the neighborhood,
saw it and stopped in and asked,
if I didn't want the stump dug out on the spot for thirty five bucks,
I said fine.
a trailer with a machine on it that was specifically for that,
they get that saw,
I think it's screwing thing that just rips it right out.
just, it just ripped it
Right out,
right out,
I took the,
left the, it left, he left the chips,
I put them up
Used those for, mulch,
mulch around the other shrubs,
and, a pile of dirt from various things, back by the garage that I filled in with
it's filling in grass, nicely this year, so that, worth it
A blessing in disguise.
two fold purpose.
y ,
do you do your own,
lawn in terms of, mowing?
self propelled, Snapper.
I'm sitting on a hill,
it's very difficult to address.
I, we just got old push, Sears mower.
been fifteen years now, since we first moved to Texas, we've had it,
I keep waiting for it to die,
every year it just seems to hang on,
that's good .
They're very expensive.
we ,
, ago I took into,
took it into Sears to have it tuned up for the season
they said, no, too old,
we won't even work on it.
(( booey ))
I took it back home,
plugs along.
they always try to give you a song and dance.
of my sons and a couple of his friends this year have ,
Do you have lots of credit cards ?
have quite a few
we don't really use them a lot.
a lot of gasoline credit cards,
because we like to be able to stop, when we're traveling and stuff wherever there's a station,
as far as like MasterCard and Visa, we don't use those too often.
What about you?
I used to have a ton of gas credit cards,
now I have one or two of them,
I think I've even let some of them expire.
I was living out of the country for a while
I wasn't using them too much
I don't drive that much.
I have, MasterCard and Visa (( as you know, ))
I have a MasterCard and an American Express now.
I got rid of the Visa because it was getting out of hand having fifteen million cards.
as long as,
my MasterCard is, free as long as you spend (( about, )) three thousand dollars a year or something like that.
I tend to buy almost all major purchases on a credit card,
when I have the choice.
I used to even use it for my grocery shopping and stuff.
The stores around here don't let you do it too much.
I don't.
I was living in France
there you pay for everything by credit card,
it's not really a credit card .
is it like an automatic debit
s ,
debit card,
just, many times you get out of the store faster if you pay with that than if you pay with cash.
they're just so well set up with it .
We use our credit cards sometimes for a big purchase,
we always have the money set aside already
we just pay it off the next,
interest on the credit cards at all.
never pay finance charges on them except when I screw up which I occasionally do.
I'll forget to pay the bill by the due date,
this last month I mailed a check to them on the twenty second
they didn't get it until the thirtieth,
it was,
due the twenty fifth.
I thought I,
I got hit up with a finance charge on it which pissed me off
because, I really did mail it in time.
they have no proof of that.
want to )) probably talk to them some more discuss it,
pay finance charges.
screwed up one time like that too.
We mailed it
they just never did get it,
we had to finally mail them another check.
I had that hassle one time
that went on for months and months and months
they eventually found the check and deposited it
months later they were still telling me that I owed them finance charges and, late fees and things like that.
I said, I mailed you a check
you eventually did deposit it.
I guess I don't know who burden of proof is on.
I don't either.
(( kind of the )) ,
you never d ,
when I pay bills I don't make a Xerox copy of it
I don't
you figure,
you'll get your check back if you have to.
them all a signed receipt whatever I,
at the bank to have a proof of when I mailed it.
(( )) you can't do that,
it would be ridiculous.
I like to use my card if I buy something through the mail which I don't do real often or something from out of state, where if something is wrong,
you don't want to end up having to pay for it.
you can,
A couple times I've had to write big credit card companies and say, I didn't really get this
I don't know what this is.
I returned it
don't charge it,
that's basically what happened with us is we bought a computer,
the computer, didn't do what these people said it would do.
(( We need to just put )) external cards in
it wouldn't do that
he brought it back to them,
they're supposed to modify it.
I called the credit card company and said, we haven't really taken possession because it's not useful for us.
We can't use it.
they said, then don't pay it.
a month later, I had to dispute it in writing,
I was out of the country and got back,
I took care of it as we got the computer back
it was okay.
I mailed off a check
it was too late.
now they're hitting (( me up there )) with a finance charge.
Oh .
it's sort of,
half our fault.
i ,
w ,
w ,
if you filed that letter with them then they will kind of,
if I had filed the letter to dispute it and then paid it eventually, it would have been okay.
I learned that for the next time.
I'm like you, too,
(( Yeah. ))
about the yearly fees.
like to pay the yearly fee for a card.
Right now both the MasterCard and the Visa, we don't have to pay a yearly fee on
since we don't pay the interest it doesn't really matter what the interest rate,
is (( too, just )) as long as we don't have to pay that yearly fee.
we had American Express cards
my husband had always had that before we got married,
those got so high we finally decided for him and me both to have a card it was ninety dollars or something I think,
I can't remember
we decided let that one go
my husband and I both have that
I don't know what we pay for his card,
I pay I think,
I have a gold one
I think it's like seventy five dollars for me
I'm not quite sure what it is for him.
I had really like w ,
nowadays I'm not that it's worth it,
in the past are some places that only take American Express
they don't have the credit limit because I've over done the credit limit on the other card,
if my husband and I both travel,
a couple of plain tickets and a little bit more and you're over the limit on the credit card.
with the American Express they say there is no limit.
There really is
tell you that,
then that was one advantage
I don't,
I think it's seventy five dollars for me and forty for him
for a year which is a lot.
Be n ,
like you said, that extra for charging tickets and stuff,
it's more worth it.
we should probably get another, Visa card,
that's free.
there are some,
I think A T and T has one that's free if you make two purchases a year.
that wouldn't be too hard to do .
that's easy enough to do,
if that's true, it might be better off to have that as a second card just to have the credit.
And get rid of the American Express because it costs so much.
Have you ever run into problems of charging up more than you meant to and having to,
be stuck with that?
We've never had,
that problem either.
the mentality of people doing it
I don't understand.
Yea ,
people think it doesn't really cost them anything to pay.
I have had months where I was shocked at how much had come in because I thought I would buy a big expense and think that it would take one or two months to process
sometimes it comes in right away
it's like, guess,
I have to pay that too.
(( )) many times buy some things towards the end of the month thinking, hey, I won't get that bill until the next bill,
not this bill.
it will come in on the next one,
you have to pay for it right away anyway.
sometimes the (( )) is (( long )) .
I've had things that I didn't get billed on for two or three months.
I guess it depends on whoever you buy it from how fast they turn them in or something.
Lot of places have tho ,
I guess they're called those pointed sale terminals where it's like it goes in the minute,
you charge it.
that's what happened with us
we bought a washing machine (( seven )) months ago,
I got billed the next day .
It didn't matter because we couldn't have paid for it by check
we prefer g ,
with the credit card you get the automatic, one year guarantee so if something breaks, things like that.
that's nice.
You can, return it so the washing machine we bought it in October
if something goes wrong with it within the first year we've got an automatic guarantee on it besides the manufacturer's guarantee.
somethings like that are,
I like that feature
the insur , if you break it yourself even,
if you buy something that's breakable.
if it gets stolen or if you lose it or whatever it might be
that's, another advantage. even things like airline tickets you automatically get flight insurance which, (( never use.
like if your bagga ,
things like if your baggage gets lost, you get money for that
to buy new bags and things like that.
I didn't know that.
when you rent a car, you get that
sometimes you get discounts with the cards
I usually keep up with news by watching A B C news on television and reading the papers here the local DALLAS MORNING NEWS
I also take the WALL STREET JOURNAL.
Do you get a chance to do it at home
do you mostly catch up while you're at work?
Do you have a chance to look through the WALL STREET JOURNAL?
I'm not sure what you do.
at the office I generally catch the WALL STREET JOURNAL at lunchtime.
I use part of my lunch period to, read the WALL STREET JOURNAL.
the ,
Then, I read the, the newspaper at home generally in the evening.
I'd rather sleep the extra thirty minutes in the morning.
I understand that.
you have a little bit better newspaper.
The DALLAS MORNING NEWS is a good paper.
Lubbock is kind of small
the A J s, kind of dominant.
There's no competition, so what you get is what you get.
We used to take the paper every day
I finally quit taking it because it stacked up.
I never got around to reading it
I try to take, weekend papers,
during the week, I catch up, on the radio on the way to work or if I'm traveling around at lunch or on the way home
hopefully I'm sitting down by the ten o'clock news to where I can kind of get a recap on T V,
that's, what we do to,
never in home in time to really watch the six o'clock news on television,
No .
we catch the ten o'clock news,
I catch the news on the radio coming to and from work,
radio news rather short.
It is.
here that are not all news stations you get about five minutes on the hour.
if you catch the news stations, you don't catch that much in the car.
I see.
frustrating to me because news.
It's frustrating when I don't know what's going on.
I feel like it's hit and miss
I haven't found anything yet that keeps me there on a constant basis.
Somebody will say, did you hear about this that happened last week
it might be local
it might be national
I'm like, no, I missed that one .
I have the same situation.
I tried the news magazines like TIME, NEWSWEEK, U S NEWS and WORLD REPORT,
they'd just stack up.
I wouldn't find time to read them.
You have to have time to sit down and concentrate the stories
all of a sudden you look and there's weeks worth laying on the coffee table
you wind up throwing them out without reading them.
that's true.
it's too much trouble to try and catch up,
That's true,
have to depend,
I guess we're becoming more of a television oriented nation in that I don't think that, my children even read newspapers, other than the T V guide section.
oh no .
There's is all, strictly television news.
A little bit that worries me, because I feel like the news is so biased.
they report facts,
you can get an idea of what's going on,
it's, an,
I wish they would just report the incident and then leave the commentaries out.
so many times you get, this is my opinion of what he meant by that,
I'm like, who are you to judge.
it's the same
just report the facts.
thing with, the news magazines, like TIME the other magazines.
It's hard to separate the news from the comment, because,
in the way it's presented their opinions is print, or presented as being the news.
then you have to try and sort out what really is the news.
I feel like they sensationalize things that shouldn't be sensationalized.
I feel like they focus too much on things that,
so much during the Gulf War, they would ask questions that, you wouldn't want broadcast.
It's like if you tell us the answer to that you're telling our enemy what your strategy is.
That's right.
they keep asking these questions
I thought it was really, asinine actually.
so many of them also come through
they have discovered that this is the most popular issue of the time. Whether it be the homeless or, cancer or whatever
they devote, an inordinate amount of time on the news cast to their personal ax to grind.
I agree.
particularly the local television. I know the, the Wednesday's Child bit
they'll take up ten minutes of a newscast and leave out something.
I'm not saying that's not important,
they leave out a real news issue to devote to one of their local pet projects.
that's true,
that's true,
it's frustrating.
s ,
when I get to listen to the news, probably television or radio.
I see very little paper
don't get to see that as much as I want
when I do I'm wondering why I wanted to see it so bad .
makes sense.
We, again,
like I say, by the time I read the newspaper it's that morning's news from the day before
I'm reading it in the evening,
a day behind most of the time anyway .
I'm glad tha ,
it makes me feel like I'm not alone, though, in the world.
used to think that I was probably the only one that just, was running around so much.
I look at other, women workers or, men at work,
that have kids and families
I'm like, how do they seem so together all the time.
I always feel like I'm running a rat race.
I guess news is just part of that rat race for me.
my wife and I feel that we never have a moment that we can call our own.
It's always, there's something going on all the time,
you don't really have time to sit down thoroughly read a newspaper.
As a matter of fact I read the Sunday paper this evening.
We had such a busy day yesterday.
Didn't find time to even read it.
that's incredible too.
that's about all then.
I appreciate talking to you.
Nice talking with you.
Have a good evening.
Same to you.
Bye bye.
there we go.
do you play golf at all?
I do,
I'm a player.
I'm kind of embarrassed I'm talking to a man, cause I'm sure that a lot more than I do.
I don't.
was younger, I played a little bit
I was horrible,
I just stopped playing.
my husband a very good golfer.
He has got, a six handicap.
that is real good.
he has been playing since we have been married for twenty two years.
I had to start playing because, he was, such an avid golfer.
I have been playing now,
I have had clubs for twenty years,
you have been playing,
I really enjoy it.
I had to check that talk about it.
have you played recently?
I don't even know if I checked that or not, to be perfectly honest. .
Oh .
That seems to have been a mistake,
I don't know.
that's okay.
I have not played in a long time.
when I was,
about five or six years ago, my dad , who plays every now and then took me out with him
I basically, had a horrible slice or hook,
I forget which one it was.
It wound up tossing the ball into the trees,
virtually every time.
the slice goes to the right
the hook goes to the left,
I think.
I was slicing,
as it turns out, I went and took some lessons for awhile, because I just, would lose so many balls, and, make it a horrible time for everybody.
I went and took some lessons,
a I got a little bit better,
sort of, (( )) back to school and did not have time and this and that,
the only thing I do now is I occasionally go out to a driving range and hit a couple of balls and see what I can do.
I think that's really a good thing to do.
I still have this (( slice )) ,
are you in your life,
are you in school?
I'm a graduate student,
at the University of Rochester?
As a matter of fact, I don't have time to do much else, except for graduate work.
I hang around this way,
a bunch of us (( )) were pretty avid golfers.
Golfers, so we will go out
we will play,
you don't,
(( )) . *
you don't have the length of the playing time that we do.
No, *
very litt , at the moment I have very little playing time.
go on vacation, my father and I,
play a little bit.
I don't,
we play three, nine hole course.
that's my favorite kind to play.
(( )) .
for a woman, it's really nice to play a par three course because,
I can't hit a driver very far
in fact, I don't even like to use a driver,
I use a three iron off the tee
because, I have more control over it.
just have better contact with the ball that way.
I'm still using a three iron
my husband is trying to get me into using a, D you,
(( )) .
know, a high number wood
those are, still not you favorite,
it's not my favorite,
I enjoy,
really do,
I think I'm going to like golf (( )) the older I get,
and the more time I have to play.
have three teenage daughters.
wow, (( )) .
One is,
You must be very busy.
I'm very busy,
I have a part time job
during the year, I don't play much golf
when are on vacation, I love to play. Just like you said.
we got to play in Monterrey in California, right, along the Pacific Ocean, this past spring.
the way to play,
that was,
if I could play there every time I want, great.
A neat experience .
Miniature golf, there's my game.
Miniature golf is great,
Miniature golf, there you go, putt, putt.
that's the thing my kids like to do that on dates and stuff.
golf is
probably are talking about golf because I did check it (( )) .
I don't
(( )) just checked random things.
recall anymore.
if you ever played,
I feel like anybody that's ever played golf can talk about it
maybe if you can even talk about it, have, watched it on T V.
we have a very very,
we had the,
tell me about your clubs up there.
we had,
I haven't played around here too much.
We have a very good one called Locust Hill though.
There, the L ,
Locust Hill?
the L P G A comes here every year
the Rochester International.
we had a P G A, a very big P G A, tour stop here, last year.
they say
I have not played the course,
they say the course is pretty tough, pretty challenging.
it's, not only that,
it's exceedingly well kept, apparently.
are the comments I kept hearing from the pros,
they kept saying, we hear, television (( )) I,
they keep saying it's just wonderful,
the course is so well maintained
it rained through half the tournament, so people had to (( )) ,
they still,
the grounds keepers were absolutely wonderful about,
getting things back up again.
when the L P G A came here
I guess that was about a week and a half ago, takes over the whole town.
It's all over the news,
lots and lots of people take off work,
to go
To watch them,
to go an watch ladies ,
The ladies,
I think wonderful to see.
I'm sure the people love golf up there like they do down here.
People are just cra ,
golf is just,
it's just the coming thing,
a lot of people are just crazy about it.
It seems to be.
It seems a lot of people are really,
you have not played it, have played it
and you sort of stink, like me,
you sort of play every now and then.
just such a difficult thing.
I watch my husband
a professional athlete,
a very good athlete
he's got the coordination, that God given coordination,
he just struggles,
all the time, master this game.
same here, I'm a brown belt in Karate at this point in time.
my, really!
I can not hit a golf ball .
I watch my husband swing
his swing, compared to the pros, is so, ridged.
It's like he's trying so hard, it's not that flowing movement.
That's because he's probably doing what I do, worrying about,
is my head straight, is my arm right,
is this correct, am I holding correctly, stuff like that. *
Or, how far he's going to hit it, I think,
Yeah, *
I worry about that.
I have just got to get this drive, really far,
I have got to hit it.
I have this nasty habit turning my head at the last second, or,
or just keeping my arm wrong.
turning your head is probably the most common thing for women,
Is it?
they say.
you are always so anxious to see where it goes.
It's just like don't watch the ball die,
I have (( )) .
It took me a long time to learn to wait until the ball was in the air before I looked up.
I have to that, especially, even more so, with a short iron than a long ir ,
(( )) driver.
than with a driver or something.
those short irons, it's just, you want to look up
cause you are getting close to the green
you want to see it hit the green.
you know that's why,
Watch where it's going.
is certainly true
(( thank you )) .
know what I'm supposed to ask questions about,
am I supposed to ask questions about this whole procedure,
I know that.
That's okay,
go ahead,
it's no big deal.
when I,
do you reimbursed for the calls you make or the calls you talk on too?
I believe so.
I really did not know so I,
I actually don't know,
I get a (( random )) reimbursement every now and then and don't really
don't really figure it out,
until afterward .
this is only my second day doing it
(( that was )) .
the details,
just started yesterday.
I have been doing this for awhile,
Have you?
It seems like it's been a while.
(( I had a )) ,
get these random checks in the mail every now and then
I see.
My wife and I both do it, as a matter of fact.
I see.
we both just, sort of, get these random checks in the mail
To be honest, really have not been accounting,
I just sort of figured, it's going to work.
if it works, it works.
(( )) ,
do you, think we should go metric?
I, I don't know.
It's kind of a tricky question, because I think a practical system,
obviously, if it's all compatible and it, tens
things make sense.
a switch.
The problem would just be the switch over.
I don't know what happened last time.
I remember they tried it in the seventies at one point or something
That's when I was in the elementary school years
we all,
me too.
We all learned that metric
they were ready,
we were going to be metric
I don't quite know why it failed.
I bet the push just wasn't big enough.
they didn't sort of encourage, businesses and things to use it,
I think they'd have to do would be to have both things on there for a while, start phasing things out
I think that's what they did at first,
was that they had metric
there's things that we've gone metric.
We have metric cola now,
I was just thinking,
you can buy that
you can,
two liter bottles are what you buy and one liter bottles.
You don't buy quarts and gallons anymore of soda.
we have little things that are metric,
no one talks about,
you buy nine by twelve frames,
you don't buy centimeter length frames,
and cooking pans.
even though the car says miles and kilometers,
you don't say,
I went,
(( huh )) .
a hundred kilometers.
fifty nine kilometers per gallon.
be total loss.
though, if there were some, sort of government incentive program or something
people would begin to switch over,
I think there would be the hard core older people who would get really pissed
who would get really, upset and start to complain and get all cranky and stuff.
I think in the end it would make life a lot easier for
it really would.
(( people )) coming up.
I, it's, because I think they had a good try there when they started with us in the elementary schools, trying to, get that in our minds, so that we could ch ,
I think our generation could make a change.
It would be difficult,
it would not be as difficult for people, fifty years old now who never been exposed to the metric system other than, buying a two liter Coke.
That's ,
what the difference between now and then might be, is we were the first generation that was (( )) in elementary school.
if they kept it up,
let's say, imagine they had kept going,
you'd have, two or three more generations that all now familiar with the metric system.
Not like could use it comfortably right now,
I could convert,
I could carry around a little conversion card or something
Right .
I could handle it for a while, eventually I'd learn,
I think that before, it was a bunch of little kids using it.
now I think there are enough people,
sort of as we get older, I think others that will bring more generations in on it, eventually they'll be able to make the switch,
we're not going to start going crazy and yelling and saying,
what are you, crazy, we can't understand you.
We'll say it's a pain in the neck,
it's for the better
we'll sort of deal with it, I think.
That's true.
That makes sense.
I don't know.
I would hope it would,
it seems like it's a reasonable system.
everything seems to be based on the same thing.
I was trying to think of what kind of things you'd have to change,
you'd have to change your height on your driver's license.
Right .
When you wouldn't be five foot eight anymore, you'd be a hundred and seventy centimeters,
you'd be lighter in kilograms than you were in
in pounds.
I wonder
all the dieters would be happy .
(( yeah
)) right .
I only weigh sixteen today.
I wonder if that's even something that, have to change immediately.
They could just, sort of phase that in,
start, from now,
from now on all licenses would have that,
rather than going back and changing everything, all new licenses as of nineteen ninety two would have it or something.
they'd have to change that little ruler that's on the door of the seven eleven that,
tells you how tall the robbers are when they,
That's right.
hold it up.
I know the,
I know, though, amusement parks, they say if you're under forty two,
inches or something.
You can't walk in here.
You have to be under.
I bet what they do in that case, they,
what some of them is they say if you're not taller than this line.
(( )) this line, which is seventy three centimeters.
That's right.
Just so you'll know,
that would be good. That, I don't know. *
It would be a neat case where where kids taught the parents, I think,
isn't it pretty much everywhere in the world?
I know England is not metric.
I don't know.
England is not?
I don't think they are, because measurements started in England,
all that began back there,
I think they're the only part of the continent that hasn't changed over to metric.
virtually the rest of the world is.
it seems
sort of stupid.
we're supposed to be,
We're the trend setters in the world.
I don't know why we,
That's right,
now we're backwards.
We haven't changed to the sensible system.
I don't know.
I would think, a base ten system as compared to a base twelve system
makes a lot more sense.
it's not even base twelve for everything,
is it?
let's see,
I don't even know what that,
I don't know.
always forget.
I don't even know how many ounces are in a pound.
I just sort of make it up.
I don't understand liquid ounces and fluid ounces.
I don't know that I have that much concrete knowledge in the current measuring system that would ,
Right .
prevent me from,
(( )) wouldn't be a problem.
It's not like it's really entrenched other,
A lot of stuff,
Let's see,
how many cups equal that?
have no idea.
I just,
I know things like, a pint is a pound the world around or something.
Right .
I don't,
That's all I know.
I didn't even know that .
learned that because, a friend of mine,
had two friends,
I had more friends than that,
two friends of mine in college,
I had a lot more than two,
I promise.
that's good.
we opened a jelly bean business.
we sold jelly beans,
we had, no idea how many,
didn't bo , we didn't bother buying a scale.
We'd go out and just buy, five pound bags of sixteen different flavors, put it in plastic shoe boxes and then sell them for x amount per pound or quarter pound or something.
didn't bother buying a scale,
he said, just remember a pint is a pound the world around,
(( he got )) the measuring cup and just measured, I think a cup or two cup, whatever is a pint.
Did you ever check it to see if it really was,
I think, wh ,
a pint?
I think he (( )) the calculation at home,
it turns out that he was actually pretty close.
If anything, we were actually in favor of the consumer.
we were giving them a little too much,
that was our general tendency anyway.
you all are (( )) nice business .
almost like we did it for the hell of it in school,
we really didn't,
I think we were only making seventy five dollars each profit at the end of the year.
Right .
an entire semester,
we had a hell of a lot of fun doing it.
Probably ate all your merchandise too.
we tended to eat a lot,
our friends would just sort of walk by and just put their hands in it,
we had another friend, the physics major again, he wasn't
he wasn't aware of jelly bean physiology, I guess,
he got into a snowball fight,
with the jelly beans nearby,
he just,
some snow fell into one of the cartons.
he brought them into the bathroom to wash them off .
basically what we had, sort of non coated beans at that point.
it's a little problem.
What's inside the jelly bean?
they're like an outer coating,
there's just sort of stuff you see, it's sort of like glorified sugar.
I don't know.
when you rinse them off, all you get the coating,
I guess we are just to discuss trials punishment. If it's to be given by the judge or not.
catch your explanation of that?
I did.
maybe I'm a hard liner
I think that there should be some preset penalties in criminal cases. Rather than, degrees of sentencing.
You mean the crimes or the punishment should fit the crime?
Okay .
again, having participated in jury duty myself, I know ,
I did also.
I know how such a diverse group of people get together, the different backgrounds, different ideas, that
sometimes you can have one person or two,
that can hold up what I consider the proper sentencing,
of the
Could you hang on one minute Jim?
Yes ma'am.
Thank you .
I am so sorry to keep you on hold.
No problem.
Are you at work?
I am too.
I think what you have is, the way justice system works is they bend over backwards trying to protect the guilty.
it's insane.
So many things in their back,
It's insane.
I know,
my wife participated in a jury trial several years back
wherein the individual after it was over and they,
had came up with the maximum sentence
in the jury form they found out that, the gentleman involved had a long history of the same type offense
which was theft of
for the prosecution could not enter good man's background into it.
It was like,
this was a first time offender.
I think that's,
It seems like (( )) ,
Those that should be in jail should be in jail .
That's correct
there's too much leniency,
there's too much, underhanded, things going on that the public are not aware of.
it seems as though we are, giving the criminal the benefit, more than the victim.
The victim has been victimized twice, not only by the perpetrator of the crime but also,
the courts that try to do the justice.
I think this is one of the reasons that also that attorneys have such unsavory reputation,
shall we say?
ounce in my body of credibility toward judicial system in
the United States.
what you got is the situation wherein, if you ever get in trouble, you want to hire the smartest, crookedest, lawyer you can find.
Isn't that terrible?
that's not the idea.
the idea is not to get the guy off of the crime,
that he committed, but to punish him for the crime he committed. *
to punish him for the crime but also to try and reeducate the man's thinking.
Yeah. *
To get him out of that, criminal mind that he has and to direct,
him into a more productive life.
we have, a situation again that I am familiar with where, the son of an acquaintance of mine
was killed
Oh .
while trying to stop a robbery.
how sad.
the person that killed him was a young woman who had left the house with full intent to commit crimes, carrying a gun in her purse.
it'd get to the,
she was sentenced to jail
then due to technicalities, she was going to be out of jail within eighteen months after she was sentenced.
Of course it took eighteen months for to happen.
there was a letter writing campaign that went in,
the Parole Board received approximately a thousand letters protesting putting this person back on the street within eighteen months after killing someone.
fortunately it worked.
the technicality.
the person now will have to serve three to four years of the seven or eight they were sentenced to.
If enough of the public,
responded to, that are involved, and if enough,
they will listen to the voice of the people.
I have found that out. That if enough people respond and rise up against the injustices being done, something is going to change.
People have to be involved.
This is it
most people don't take the time.
That's right.
Again the only reason I took the time is because I was personally acquainted
That's right.
with these people.
I'm just
You were,
as guilty as the rest in that respect.
I'm not making an excuse
priorities are a bit backward.
they, again the,
I'm not knocking the civil rights program or anything like that,
we've gone,
overboard to, protect persons from their civil rights,
violated to the point where the person that is damaged,
is not protected.
It's again the victim gets worse punishment then the person,
that commits the crimes.
That's correct.
I think we're both in agreement on this subject.
I am too.
just can't.
served on a jury for a lady that was having a mental problem
we found her not because the lady obviously was not in their right mind.
if the person is not in the right mind, they had to, put her away.
for her own safety and because she didn't know what she was doing.
dismissed the case.
she was, taken care of by the proper facility.
another side of the coin with our justice system there are a lot of frivolous cases that go to court.
There are a lot of things that could be settled out of court
that's true.
or should never have gone to court.
the amazing thing, of course, is how, some cases can come to trial in thirty days,
others it takes eighteen months .
Carolyn, I have a
What do you have?
it's kind of a mixed breed that we got from the Humane Society .
You know, those make the
My, son has
it's a real mixture,
it's part, Doberman and part Husky .
gentlest dog you ever met,
they got him from the, Humane Society here in Oklahoma City
she's just turned out to be a jewel.
little Schnauzer my friend.
She is so spoiled.
She's a year and a half old now,
being single, she's become very important in my life
it's so nice to come home and find something, or someone who's really so happy to see you.
my children are the ones that wanted our pet,
this one is probably the best one that we have had.
as I say, we got it from the Humane Society,
we had lost a pet,
we really went there looking for the one that we had lost.
It got out under the fence while we were on vacation,
we just looked all over for it and couldn't find it,
when we walked in Humane Society, this little dog was, in the office and would sit up and beg,
just, he was so cute,
the kids just fell in love with it.
We just couldn't leave without it.
before must have trained it real well, because a good house dog.
I've never had one that I could keep in the house before and tolerate it .
Sometimes I wish I had not gotten this one, it's a puppy, because I work
I'm not home
unfortunately she's not as well trained I would like her to be
I realize it's my fault,
I'm not doing a really great job as a disciplinarian,
It's hard to do that when you're not there constantly,
It is,
it is.
real good,
I can leave her all day in the bathroom
with her toys and her food and everything,
not one mess does she make
we go outside,
she'll stay outside for, thirty minutes to an hour, come inside and use the restroom.
I just want to kill her at
those times.
she's a doll,
she's a love,
she really is.
About the only time we have,
I shouldn't say the only time,
most of the time when we have problems with restroom is in the night,
she usually stays inside at night.
We try to take her out right before we go to sleep,
sometimes it doesn't work .
we always had a pet when I was growing up, always had a dog.
My mother did not like cats.
we always had a dog,
course, when my children were growing up, we always had a dog, and always said it was because the children wanted the pet
I find that I'm enjoying this one far more than I ever did when it was the children's dog,
in fact my children gave me little puppy for Christmas.
What a cute idea.
I think so .
we got one one year for Christmas,
I had a baby the next day
my goodness.
Two babies,
that one wasn't really well trained .
I just didn't have time to take care of baby and train puppy at the same time,
is really probably bad timing.
I thin ,
it was,
it really was.
The older kids had wanted one, though,
we thought, that would be a fun time for them to at Christmas time.
It was a little Spitz, wi , a little white
fluffy and, looked like it came right from the north pole,
that was fun,
sure wasn't good at training it
Do you
I think you have to have time,
and patience
to do those things.
be, just like your children,
when you set a rule you have to stand by it, and be consistent
That's right.
since I'm in college, I haven't seen that much change .
I'm kind of young still,
I don't know how much it changed in the last, twenty years anyway.
I don't know.
have an idea how much.
I'm not that old either .
I'm only twenty nine.
social changes aren't that much for me either.
I can remember are from, from my childhood were the disco days
maybe that's changed a lot.
people dress
I think attitudes are more lax now than they used to be.
More lax?
and laid back and stuff
Maybe a people are a little more open minded than maybe they used to be.
I think so.
I think so,
a lot,
I think people used to now saying on their minds more
more up front
than they used to be.
Especially with a lot of the different organizations now like, Pro Life Pro , Choice the special interest groups maybe
maybe people are more, free to express their opinions, socially free.
I think so.
I think women have come out more
too, child abuse
the wife beatings,
like you said, and
I think that's become more than it used to be where women, I think used to be a little bit afraid of coming out and saying something.
Just wasn't socially acceptable.
too a big social change maybe for the worst is how, the people's, views relationships has changed,
we have to worry about AIDS
we have to worry about, maybe people are becoming afraid of
I know like when I was in high school and junior high and stuff and sitting down and having the sex talk with mom,
and all that stuff,
we didn't have to talk about,
basically her thing was just don't do it,
Ri ,
to think that my children are not going to not do it.
It wasn't that long that I was that young.
I've got a ten year old,
he thought, he knows about condoms,
he knows about AIDS,
it's just different things you have to talk to them about now
that you would never even have dreamt to have to say anything about.
It used to be trying to protect morality.
Now it's we're protecting our lives.
It's a
it's a much different,
we have,
you can't hope for abstinence.
that's stupidity on parents' part.
sex is rampant,
it always will be,
I think, too, noticing the kids, that the fourth and fifth graders, which is what my son is
and stuff, just, they're more, they're very open.
the boys are very open
because all I have is boys, so that's all I'm around
basically, is boys,
they talk about things that brother didn't talk about until he was in college
they sit down
they look at you right in the face
they expect a truthful answer.
That's right.
You can't the, Cabbage Patch answers
and stuff.
that just does not go.
they can tell me, basically some things that I don't know .
interesting, listening to them.
the social changes in them, I think I see it more with that generation
than I do with our generation.
I imagine you're right.
teach swim lessons a lot,
to kids talk about when, open about,
kids are a lot more educated now than I think we were, at that age
I do too.
about a lot of things.
they learn, our social environment just amazing.
their math is just,
every year, algebra goes down a grade,
students learn it earlier.
I know,
my son, my fourth grader, he is,
which ones have you seen lately?
I just sort of blanking tonight.
I just got done saying I just saw one, fairly recently.
gosh, I know, the one with the two girls that take off from, across the country on a crime spree.
THELMA AND LOUISE,
THELMA AND LOUISE,
I haven't seen that.
Is it good?
it really is,
Is it?
I enjoyed it.
I was going to go see, the Billy Crystal movie, also, which was,
I'm a little bit behind.
I usually rent them .
not familiar.
Billy Crystal movie?
this is the,
just the one,
it was the,
CITY SLICKERS,
CITY SLICKERS,
That's a real good show.
Have you seen that?
it's great.
it says a lot about,
it says a lot about middle life
it's a really good show.
I've heard lots of good things about it
I liked to have seen it,
I was with my wife
I figured she'd like THELMA AND LOUISE better
I'd heard it was really good, too
I'm not too familiar with THELMA AND LOUISE.
recently seen, the FISHER KING.
Have you seen that?
It's a really good show.
has Jeff Bridges Robin Williams.
really, really good.
been fair number pretty good movies out recently.
it kind of runs in, in batches,
for a while, sometimes they come in a whole bunch of them that just,
doesn't even sound like something I want to see.
kind of movies in general do you like to watch?
I like to be entertained once in a while
really enjoy watching a movie where they don't really try and attract great audience, but rather put out real good movie.
it always,
favorite movie of all time has been, THE MISSION.
Did you ever see that?
in fact, I'm not even familiar with it,
I don't think.
it's ,
I think it's put out by Landmark Productions, the same people who put out CHARIOTS OF FIRE.
has Robert DeNiro in it.
he plays one of the main characters
it's about, Jesuit community the Inca Falls South America, Northern Argentina.
really, really good show.
in fact, I'll, I'll look for it because I ,
something that,
really stirring.
The cinematography is just beautiful really beautiful scenes and real good music.
my wife's from down in that region Seven Missions right down where I'm sure where it was filmed at.
I'm sure that, that would make it her watching.
my movie watching severely, changed a lot since I got married.
likes, action movies and comedies
anything anything
little bit less than sort of mainstream Hollywood is
is boring to her .
I, I really, I used to watch a fair number of foreign films.
I used to watch a lot of, sort of, popular films.
I find I don't do it anymore or else I have to watch them on my own.
I'm much the same way.
I, I have a fiance
gets very difficult to,
Find something both of you will watch.
it's funny because most women aren't really,
she's sort of Schwarzenegger fan type of.
she really likes all these gory
shoot them up films.
Keep her on the edge of her seat.
I'll watch them,
they're kind of fun to watch in a way.
they are.
Sometimes you're in the mood for it even.
it varies,
I don't seem to get, as much variety these days lately
as I used to.
I found I get, when I get with my, old college buddy, usually rent, good gladiator movie or two .
(( )) I still enjoy watching those.
You can't just watch them by yourself or else,
it's not bearable.
fun to,
on the other hand, given that my wife likes those, I occasionally like to watch them
can always count on her to watch something like that .
she'll even watch things like karate movies and stuff like that.
which women now
they won't come within ten feet of,
The ones where they the English.
(( ya )) .
All the sounds of the karate chops flying through the air .
(( A cha! )) .
That's great.
on foreign films you, did you watch,
are you, fluent in another language
I s ,
I speak several,
don't mind watching subtitle movies.
you don't?
I don't either.
feel foolish sometimes because don't speak another language fluently
I do enjoy watching
for some people, that's just, that's out of the question,
You give it subtitles, they won't watch,
Lucille Hughes.
Lucille, I'm (( )) .
All right,
did you hear our topic?
All right,
I guess I'm probably a lot like you.
I'm a Dallas Maverick fan.
I certainly am too.
Now tell me what you expect from the Mavericks this year.
unfortunately, I don't expect a great deal out of them.
They just have too many problems, too many ailments, too many hurt bones, and maybe too much age at this point.
when Roy Tarpley just now he messed up on them, it just hurt them so bad.
I feel
like everyone else,
I feel sorry for Donald Carter and the members of the team and the management team and everyone else.
It just seems like they were just getting themselves in a position where they could possibly be team playing for all of it.
Yes, sir.
National championship or the world championship, and something like this happens.
do you think it's time that we go for new, coaches?
Is that part of our problem?
I think at this time, we're just in rebuilding type of phase,
I think that probably be evident with young guys they draft.
it just, it's so discouraging that they can't really,
they're entitled to more than they've been able to do so far.
awfully sorry that the Mavericks can't come on do.
Roy, who's your next best team,
who do you like after the Mavericks?
I'm so much a fan I don't know.
Probably the Boston Celtics.
I've just always like the Boston Celtics.
similar situation in that a lot of old guys on the team,
they're still playing good ball.
always been a Boston Celtic fan, too,
I've lived in Texas since seventy four,
being a transplanted Texan the Dallas area, I have to stick with those Dallas Mavericks.
We certainly need to support them,
do we not.
we do.
Do you go to the game?
I go to a few games.
I haven't been to many.
I'm not a season ticket holder or anything.
I was a season ticket holder of the Cowboys for years,
when my kids got to a certain age and went off to school and college and doing their own thing, sort of gets boring going by yourself .
it does .
I'm sure it would in such a monstrous place down there.
you bet.
can do some.
I don't know,
who do they need to trade?
I don't know.
It seems like Rolando Blackman Harper sort of carry the team,
they just,
I don't know,
I'm afraid to say, that's probably who they need to trade to get someone in there good,
that can really help the team,
they do that,
they trade the nucleus of their power right now.
Yes, sir,
it seems that way to me.
don't know any of the newer ones that they have
I'm not well versed on their capabilities,
we really need to do something.
I feel like, the best they can hope for this year is probably an opportunity to make the playoffs.
I like their coach.
I really like (( )) a lot,
he deserves a good break.
I think he deserves a healthy team so they can really see what he can do for the club.
with all he's invested, he deserves a
I really.
a healthy team for one year and a good break also.
Yes, sir.
This thing with Roy Tarpley just upset everyone, I think. Fans, owners, management, everyone.
they have just done as much as they can for that man,
he apparently can't straighten his act out,
we need build on something more positive than that.
You bet.
I think they're fools if they ever bring him back .
I do, too.
I certainly would agree to that.
Hate to put it that way.
I just would not believe him any more.
you can't give, anyone too many chances
I think he has gone over the limit.
There's an old saying lead a horse to water
you can't make him drink.
That's right.
I think Tarpley's just a sad case.
to be making million dollars a year, that's pretty sad.
It is tragic.
I don't,
we're going to have to do something about all of these fabulous salaries they're paying to all of our athletes, I think.
I think you're right.
Everything has been put out of perspective now.
you take young kid Roy Tarpley's age, I'd say he was twenty one when he came into the league,
now he's probably an old age of, twenty five or six
Yes, sir.
and making all that money,
quite a, that's a little more of a challenge for a young man than need at that point in their life, I think.
I think you're right.
I believe that one,
I think, it's created by,
are you from this area?
I'm from Dallas.
I'm in Garland,
I'm in Dallas right now,
I live in Garland.
I don't know if you know,
Garland has got a real big recycling center that, in fact, we went to it yesterday.
You drive up
you take the stuff out of your trunk,
they have different bins for the different materials, like clear,
glass and colored glass and plastics
they have all the different plastics separated by those little symbols on the bottom.
That's pretty neat.
daughter is four,
she's real interested in recycling.
trying to promote that, because she thought we just put them in a special trash can and threw them away,
we went to the recycling center to show her what we actually did with them.
does Dallas have a curbside recycling program yet?
I don't know Dallas,
Richardson does.
they started with newspapers and, of course aluminum cans, and
and bottles and plastic.
I didn't know there were different types of plastic, though.
like soda bottles are of plastic,
milk jugs are one type of plastic.
You can te ,
it's got little,
most of the recyclable containers have the little symbol on the bottom arrows around it
that tells whether it's a one or a two or a three.
just different kinds of plastics, like the clear plastic is different from that milky looking plastic.
what the different types are.
It seems to be made out of something different.
know there's a long scientific name
it's like polytechnochloride and all that fun stuff.
don't know if they do it all over,
our Kroger does a newspaper recycling every Saturday.
You can drive up,
they have one of that will take the out of your car,
they'll put it in their little bin,
they do the recycling,
they collect the newspapers and grocery bags
which I think is pretty neat.
(( )) .
That's something since we all seem to have an abundance of those plastic grocery bags .
That's right.
I know we use them for trash can liners and
a lot of other things.
Lunch bags.
in fact I have one today.
The only problem with those is sometimes they get holes in the bottom.
they do.
It's like, whoops, there goes my chips
in fact did you happen to see TWENTY TWENTY the other night?
They did a program,
one of their articles was on recycling,
it was actually on a town that has a dump that they charge other cities, or towns to come in and dump their trash there.
They have made so much money from that, that a brand new fire engine,
when the fire engine was delivered the fire house wasn't big enough, so a new, built a new one
(( )) .
and paid for it in cash with the money that they've earned from this landfill.
They have built up one mountain.
They call it Mount Trashmore
They built up one mountain, covered it with grass, and put ski lifts on it,
in the winter they put snow on it,
they charge to ski on it.
the city gets the money from that,
they built a golf course at the bottom,
they get the money from that.
I's like,
Riverview, Ohio or some place up there.
a pretty neat idea.
city hall looked better,
it was nicer than Dallas',
they only have fourteen thousand people in the city.
they like the trash.
okay .
I thought it was pretty neat.
would be nice if more communities could do that,
you have to know from beginning,
you have to have the space to do it
they'll run out of space before long.
they're already planning a second mountain.
they're called the Twin Peaks.
I was like, Go back two T V shows.
would be nice if more communities could get really involved in recycling .
I know, I've got a two year old and a four year old,
my daughter thinks that any time she sees newspapers bundled up, they're being recycled.
it's like, no, Honey.
that was one reason we went to show her what people did with stuff when they recycled it
and try to explain you melt down the cans
you make them into new things,
you get the paper all wet
you make it into new paper,
that's fun, trying to explain that to a four year old .
do you all go ahead,
They don't even know that paper comes from trees now,
that was her next question, was, how do you grow paper?
How do you grow paper?
Was well, from trees
That's why you have to cut down trees and why you have to plant more trees.
how do you grow aluminum?
let's see, ,
we really don't,
she was like, what do you do with the glass?
you crunch it up real small
you melt it down.
what if it breaks?
okay, .
it was an interesting weekend trying to explain all that fun stuff to her.
at least she knows that that is something that people need to be doing,
she got our baby sitter to start recycling her newspapers and cans, because that's all she talked about.
I guess what,
what are your feelings on the topic today as far as crime in America today?
I think some of the blame can be placed on plea bargaining and people getting less time and not serving any of the, or a lot less of the,
time they're
given by the court system,
I don't know,
with the economy the way it is, I think crime can't do much but go up.
agree with you.
I had occasion a couple years ago to hear the Chief of Police of Richardson, Texas speak
it's a shame , criminal today, not a murderer, but a guy that breaks in houses and steals things for a couple of years, hides all the stash and works off of it
when he gets caught, he'll be sentenced to something like five to seven years,
he gets five days credit for every day he serves.
it's like a bonus to go to jail.
subsequently, a five year sentence means he's going to be out in, a year on probation.
what he does, the chief said is he just merely goes back to stash where he has it hidden and continues to operate
when he uses up all that and spends all that money, then he, starts robbing houses again or whatever and gets caught again and goes through the same thing.
there was an article in our paper Sunday that the average person sentenced to seven to ten years in North Carolina, serves six weeks .
crime right there.
we don't have any room in our prisons
we don't either, in Texas.
them in and shuttle them out
they early parole in order to make rooms for the new criminals who stay there for their six weeks
paroled, to make room for the newest criminals
just really absurd.
certainly is,
that would be a huge concern.
I don't think the general public really realizes this as far as what goes on with our criminal system, our judiciary system and everything else.
terrible the way it is right now.
I think the general public is so overwhelmed by things right now, so many different things coming in so many different directions that they've just decided to become apathetic towards it all because they realize there's abs ,
they think that there's absolutely nothing they can do about it.
as far as steps to reduce crime, if it's, crimes like we're just been discussing, obviously need more prisons and more corrective facilities to put these people in
to, take them off the streets,
I don't think that's going to happen because, just like you said,
our state's a good example,
your state's a good example
it's just not going to happen.
As far as the murderers, and people that commit rape and things like that, I'm not sure what's right,
I know it,
it's not right to put them in there and let them live for years and years and years before you do execute them or whatever because to be very costly to feed a prisoner and to
clothe him
I'm sure he gets to watch a lot of T V
I'm sure they have, exercise facilities and movies
everything else, they can have a good time in.
I don't know what the answer is,
I know that asking the question over and over and over again isn't working
it really isn't.
A big,
it's a big problem
hopefully something will come out of it.
I don't know.
I hope so.
I'm pretty much of a hard person,
I believe in capital punishment,
a person rapes a kid or shoots someone or kills someone,
if it's just downright, outright,
I definitely believe in capital
You bet,
that's the only way to,
death row for nineteen years that of about.
you spend of dollars to, take care of them and all,
it's just unbelievable.
you can appeal now in North Carolina for almost a period of twenty years.
Can you really?
you can just keep going around and around and around the merry go round until you,
the average is eight to ten years to get in to the North Carolina Supreme Court
after that it goes to the Supreme Court of the United States
that usually takes another four to six years.
I know.
it's ,
Meanwhile, you're living in a country club situation perhaps,
They're hoping,
I guess they're trying to prolong their lives and hoping people will forget what they did.
it's just a,
we have a serious problem.
We have so many problems in this state now
thing is the, the thing,
The drug problem, that's another one.
The fundamental problem
our topic today?
something about the school system here.
I'm sort of, don't know if this an advantage or disadvantage.
My wife's a school teacher
then, walk softly.
You go right ahead because I,
have a lot of strong opinions on it, too.
My wife teaches seventh grade,
there is a lot of serious things wrong with the school system today and the teaching system.
I think the,
I don't think the teachers get enough support, quite honestly.
for example, my wife, she has kids that are on drugs,
of course, like everyone, she has kids that get pregnant in the seventh grade.
What school system does she teach in?
Plano School System.
to give you an example, one of her kids will come in and just bombed out on drugs,
she sends him to the principal's office,
the principal sends him right back, or her right back, and says, your problem, you take care of it.
You're not allowed to send them home.
if you do that, then your allocation's cut from the state or the feds or whatever,
you have to have a certain amount of kids in your class every day,
it's a numbers game.
I don't think that's right, interrupting the class and preventing other kids from learning.
I think it's more of a,
there's a bigger problem here than, than discipline in the schools.
I think it gets back to the, parental participation into the program.
to give you an example, both of my children are in the academy system in the Garland School District,
it's a public system, however, you'd think that it was a private school, because I take it, the best teachers and the best students,
they're taking top three percent that have tested out, in the district and, put them in this academy system,
to get into the system's very difficult.
once you're in, they have, they have self paced programs,
you have students that want to learn
you have teachers that want to teach,
you have parents that are really interested in the children,
basically, there's probably some discrimination if you want to say that
because most of the people that are in the academy system, are Caucasian, and, because you have to test into the system.
most of,
that's not all true,
I'm saying a large percentage of them are,
also the other large percentage that all the parents just about, of these kids, have college degrees, at least one parent does.
I think my justification for saying that the parents pushing their children at home, even if they don't know what their children are learning, saying do your homework, let me see it, don't get in trouble at school or we're going to be all over you .
My son had such a tough time in, the school he went to
there was through,
it wasn't all the school's fault,
it was his fault also,
we put him in a private school in Richardson,
cost more,
that was five thousand dollars a semester for three semesters,
that was more than his college tuition was
it had to be done,
at least it took care of him and, threw him in a good learning situation where he did participate and, want to learn something.
I'll tell you what, there are a few faults, to say the least, in the school systems today.
I think what we've done is, especially looking at, the South Dallas area, is that we're trying to bring the education level down to the lowest level so that the lowest level can succeed.
I think we have that problem dealing in most areas, which is unfortunate.
that also probably crosses over into business, because now, businesses also say that if you're don't have the proper education, including, exposure to high tech fields
You bet.
such as computer technology, if you can't use a computer today and do word processing and do, data base management and do, I forget all the other stuff, financial management and all this other kind of stuff in your regular job, you can't function
You bet.
(( )) .
I think that the school system proliferates over to the business world
the business world then says, we're not going to pay you, unless you have the education,
educ ,
done is caused a big problem that proliferates itself.
teachers, they have a, a tough row to hoe, so to speak, always fighting the system.
I don't know if it's better than any,
we came down to Texas from the, New York area,
we were there for a short time,
my wife is from New York,
she was born and raised there, and educated there, college and everything,
I think, the schools in the east are really a whole lot better than the schools in the south, I don't care where you're from.
I don't know if they learn more,
have a tendency to learn more,
in that part of the country there is all nationalities,
Alright Allen.
the questions is concerning the changes in the roles of American women in the past several generations in the society we live in.
What do you think has occurred there?
I think one of the major changes is the whole attitude towards women in the work place and the role of women in doing jobs outside of the home.
That's probably one of the major changes I see over the last period of time.
they being given the full honor for the work they are doing what they have to accept that's they are responsible for.
responsibilities is what I am trying to say.
I don't think so.
I think it has come a long ways in terms of giving them equal opportunities
I still think in lots of job markets they are not treated as equals.
In other words, in some respects the other direction, in some job markets they don't really want to be treated as equals.
By the same token, cases, women have the jobs with the same responsibility of men who have been there before, but at lower salaries.
I think that's
Is that right and wrong?
generally speaking, pretty true.
I think that's what we really ought to look at that, if they are going to do equal work they ought to get equal pay.
they ought to have equal opportunities to advance to those positions
I don't think that we have gotten there yet.
what changes do you think are most significant over the past few years?
Any individual thing
is it just a general switch over?
I think it's generally that switch over.
I think that switch over has been more in the work force.
I don't think that women are treated as equals in the home as much as they are in the work force.
I think those women who are out working are probably still expected to carry more responsibility at home
that the husband is having them, on the other side of that coin picked up as much responsibility at home.
they have one and three quarters jobs now. Whereas the husbands have one and a quarter.
I have a feeling that business with the woman working out at the same level of responsibility as their husband sort of tears into their social or their loving relationship.
In that, lady needs to stand up for what she has made and her own rights and has a right to do so
this upsets the man because we have always been built to think that we were sort of head of the household.
do you think that is going to be difficult saying as far as marriages and people enjoying each other
in the future years?
I think also in terms of parenting.
I think there is going to be some increasing problem because I think women are expecting husbands to do more parenting
I am not sure they are becoming more skilled at it.
I think it really has put some additional stresses on the family units.
do you have any opinion of potential changes that may occur in the next generation,
think one of the things that always happens is I think is when the one end were moving out to the end where a lot of women will be at work
I think we are starting to see now some tendency of women at mid thirties
the opinion of this career thing isn't all that it is cracked up to be
I want to go back and do something else.
I think we will probably see the pendulum in terms of the work force swing back a little bit.
Also, much of it is driven by economics right now.
People have gotten out and gotten use to incomes coming in.
I mo ,
a lot of women are being hired now instead of men because they can get brought in at lower salaries because that's what everybody else assumes they are going to get.
the people.
how do you feel about women in, armed services?
I think they ought to have the right.
I have some problems with my own family thinking about and my daughter going into combat
I have problems with men doing that
I guess if they want to they ought to have the right to do it.
It's nothing I would be greatly enthusiastic about pushing for it.
I somehow can't do that
was brought up in the ages where the ladies were kept home, safe, secure, and made happy
the men went out and took responsibility of earning the money, bringing in whatever they needed and protected the household
really still bothers me.
I spent plenty of years in the service,
it still bothers me to see ladies out in combat or out in places where there is two or three of them there and five hundred men around.
how are they going to protect themselves so to speak.
I agree.
It puts them in a very bad situation.
really don't go for that.
I think one of the other things that has concerned me a little bit,
I think I see some change in attitudes there.
My wife happens to be a wife who has chosen to stay at home
there's, has been a tendency over the past few years to treat her as though she was somebody who didn't have much intelligence
because if she did she would be out in the work force, fulfilling herself.
that's not fair. Because I can tell you one thing, stay home sometime and start doing some of those jobs that she's been handling
you're going to learn there is a lot of responsibility just keeping the home going .
I hope we reach the point where whatever women chose to do, that's acceptable.
If they chose to go into the work force that's okay.
If they chose not to, that's acceptable.
if they go into the work force, they should be treated as nicely
As equals.
well as a man or any other person.
All right.
what do you think of the Giants?
I like the Giants.
They got,
I probably didn't get into baseball until three years ago really
just like the Giants.
know why.
I really got into them.
I read, Dave Dreveki's book
his autobiography
wasn't that something of him.
was incredible.
that's really a,
really proud of him though, the way he's,
The way he handled that entire situation, there.
I just think the Giants have a good team.
got all,
they're real balanced out.
They got real good pitching,
they got the hitting to go along with it.
I just don't understand why they're not right up there on the top
they just
they need that, I think they just need that element to push them over the top,
I don't really know what it is,
really good seems,
like the A s they just had it all that one year.
I was mostly an A s fan,
I had been to more games at the A s than I have in the Giants
because, I lived in Oakland
for some time.
I still like the Giants, though, .
if you're a fan you got to stay with the team any way,
good and the bad
kind of hard.
I still, basically,
me and all my friends around here, since we don't have anywhere,
we can go to the Astros or the Rangers teams,
since, no ,
and my friends are like either one of those teams,
the most baseball we get is T V we play it on Nintendo.
We play R B I baseball on Nintendo
small town trying to make it through
not being around it really,
I prefer football
over baseball,
so do I,
baseball is still
to do something when football ain't on.
hot dogs, baseball and apple pie.
This is America,
what do you think is going to happen this year to the teams?
I don't know, it's hard to say.
I haven't
you have to just keep up with everything in the off season.
It's kind of hard to do,
at least,
I know.
you have to read the paper and SPORTS ILLUSTRATED and everything to keep up with who they traded and who they picked up all that,
like I say, get that one element that they were missing, I think the Giants can do it.
the Giants are.
They just,
I don't,
I don't really know about the A s.
I don't like the A s, matter of fact I can't stand the Oakland A s .
Just because got their Jose Canseco all the attitude that goes along with that,
They kind of.
makes you sick, doesn't it?
you hear what he did.
He ramming his wife's car,
I was like, yeah.
He's like a little bitty kid,
he's just a little boy with a lot of money.
That's just,
I guess the Giants might move away from San Francisco, it sounds like.
talk about that.
they won't be that far away,
San Francisco will be hurting, anyhow.
they're not going to be happy about it.
I hope they can do good.
that's just,
I think they're a good team. That just need that little thing to push them over.
I don't know exactly what it is.
They got,
they're pretty balanced out all the way through.
It just might be the drive,
more than anything else,
probably just need something to push them
because the only thing I can see that's holding them back, is the ambition to do it.
somebody basically,
maybe they just need everybody to tell them they can't do it.
Maybe some teams need.
Look at the Twins going from worst to first.
I know, isn't that something
my roommate
I couldn't believe that,
my roommate's a Twins fan, for forever,
he had his year this year,
I just, it.
got into that a whole bunch.
series to remember, for sure.
I saw all seven games of that,
That was definitely worth watching.
I couldn't believe that,
I don't,
there was Braves in that chanting that they had.
That would drive you up a wall.
every team with the Indians been doing that now.
I can't figure out why.
You have to figure out why they're all doing that, I'm like, it's doesn't work, it's obvious it doesn't work because the,
you're right .
the didn't win,
why keep on doing something that didn't work,
I don't know.
kind of surprised that we were going to talk about baseball,
I get a woman's voice.
I was,
I was, I was thinking, huh,
I talked to a guy named Vinny last night about fixing your car,
I got a call the other night about, fixing your automobile up,
baseball's baseball.
It's kind of,
I don't know, it's kind of odd they pick,
do you pick the topic or does the computer?
they give you a list of things that you want,
not familiar.
I think, you guys in Indiana, don't you have death penalty?
we do have the death penalty here.
It's not exercised very often,
we do have it.
I believe it,
I can't even remember the last execution we had here
personally I'm in favor of capital punishment.
I know there's a problems with it,
seems to me that some crimes are just so heinous the person I feel, doesn't deserve to live, doesn't deserve for the tax payers to spend however many thousands of dollars it costs a year to keep them prison for life.
I know there's a lot of problems with that, like, they say, if you put them on death row and execute them, then ten years later you find out that he really didn't do it, then that life was wasted,
just seems like in some cases that good policy.
tend to agree with you,
I've changed my views within the last few years, to be honest.
an undergraduate, I was a member of Amnesty International
of course, at that time, I thought, it was stupid to kill anybody for,
the eye for an eye was a stupid argument.
the, the more,
now I live in downtown Dallas,
I've seen, I've seen cases in the news and all person who had murdered a person is back on the street and then commits another murder.
I think that maybe, a good solution to capital punishment might be, reserve it solely for, repeat offenders of a crime like, murder.
thought that I had never really had on that
which seems pretty sensible.
it seems sensible and failsafe.
I don't,
not completely failsafe,
if a man's convicted of two murders, there's a pretty good chance that something's wrong.
I also,
to tell you how liberal I have turned, toward this, or whatever side that is
I've kind of chosen, I believe it that, big time drug importers, like, Noriega for example
that these people need to be, eliminated,
from society,
the death penalty is the best choice for those people, because, really any kind of, jail sentence for them is just another chance to, create another power structure .
right there.
I gue ,
basically my views, I guess they tend to be more economically oriented
in that they come out with these figures that it costs fifty thousand dollars, taxpayer dollars a year to keep someone alive in jail
when they're going to be there for life, they're never going to be rehabilitated.
I don't believe that the prison system that we have today does much towards rehabilitation to begin with
to me I'm paying taxes, twenty percent of my check or whatever
to keep somebody alive who I, in my mind shouldn't be there in the first place and is never going to be a valuable or worthwhile part of society,
all in favor of it.
do you,
are there cases where you think punishment shouldn't be, sentenced?
really don't know on that question.
It just seems like,
for instance, the Jeffrey Dahlmer case. I don't really think that this person is going to ever be a worthwhile part of society.
I hope the guy never gets back out on the streets
in that case, Wisconsin doesn't have a death penalty,
he's going to be sentenced to life imprisonment
I think he should not be allowed to live,
then you're kind of playing God
That's true,
which is a good thing to do.
cases where I think the death penalty should be withheld, not really that I can think of.
I would be in favor of the death penalty in things like, murders, and like you said, repeat murders or
serial killers
I don't really agree with the, death penalty for people like Noriega and such as that.
I think that operating on a more,
I know that they're causing massive problems in society up here,
I don't really think in our power to take these people from a sovereign state and say you don't deserve to live, because
they're feeding our consumer needs.
your point.
of course, with Dahlmer now, realize that I think it's Ohio, gets to try him next
they do have the death penalty.
that was a curious case.
that is very curious.
something is sort of nightmarish
to say the least.
here in Texas we,
I think this they had another, they,
they use their capital punishment by lethal injection,
Steve, this is,
like I mentioned, Brian and I guess we're going to want to be talking about child care.
do you have any experience in, finding child care?
ourselves, we have , I guess never had to look for child care.
Our kids are now fourteen and eighteen.
you go back those many years and, we didn't do it very much.
were in a situation where we didn't need to be looking at, two family income at the time .
our kids were older.
I've had to deal with, friends of ours that have used child care and that kind of thing.
my involvement hasn't been direct
still have been, certainly exposed to criteria people are using.
How about yourself?
we're kind of lucky.
I'm working.
My wife isn't working
she is taking care of the kids also.
we haven't had to look for child care either which has been very nice.
I do have, like you mentioned, a lot of friends, a lot of, co workers and associates that are looking for child care
some of the things that they're very critical about is the number of kids that are in the child care. what kind of, guidance counselor to student or, adult to child relationship.
How many
you don't want to have thirty or forty kids and only one adult.
something happens and the adult wouldn't be able to, accommodate or take care of the kids very well.
(( Right )) .
they also want to make sure that the kids are being taught and not just playing around all the time.
depends also upon level of the child.
We, we, take a very close look at finding a good preschool for our kid.
I kind of relate that to that making sure that teachers are very well educated themselves. They have a good curriculum and that they're willing to teach the kids and have a fun time with them.
it's very important, I feel, that the kids interact with other children also.
good way to develop
relationships with other kids their age and, get to know and work with kids.
I don't know. guess we're kind of in the same boat.
We haven't had to look very carefully for child care.
kind of think that, some of our friends or even our own children will be in a situation where they may need to look for child care.
even, here. I guess we have in one sense two forms of, child care.
There's where individuals will in one, primarily babysit
huh .
children in their own home.
that will be groups of anywhere from one or two to, maybe, seven or eight children.
huh .
otherwise, there will be
, the majority are co operative day cares.
people form a co op and, parents will work in the co op and put a fair number of hours.
Frequently, they will hire staff to be at the day care
the emphasis is primarily, someplace for the children to be.
at the same time, there's some fairly good training programs some of them formal two year programs.
right .
there is some definite, creative play, good social interaction, that kind of thing.
I think it's, important. Like you mentioned, that's a good idea on the, parent co op because, I'm very concerned about the welfare of my kids
I don't want to just take them to somebody I pick out of the yellow pages or out of some ad somewhere.
I want to trust the people .
and you read the newspaper quite often people that, don't treat or take care of your kids the way you think they ought to be taken care of,
hope to never get into that situation where we find somebody and we have to trust someone with the welfare of our children.
hope that we can stay in this situation for awhile.
we've even had some of those kinds of situations publicized here
I guess, it, are,
it's, typically, whether it's been child care in a home
or in a larger situation where actually it's more of an institution.
you've actually got children that most people would consider problem children
more of a group home rather than
actually day care type of facility.
That's true,
that's true.
Steven, it's been,
are you there?
I'm sure that I probably, prescribe to different magazines ones that you do .
I take DOLL READER and DOLL WORLD .
Different set .
Because I collect dolls .
I also take BETTER HOMES AND GARDENS.
I like that.
my husband, he just, subscribed to a wood,
he just started a woodwork
he just sent away to get some woodworking books.
(( )) .
what kind do you, get?
I have a bunch of computer journals
because I'm in computer science
beyond that, lately I've been reading,
I've always liked the NEW YORKER.
lately I've been picking up some of the travel, both trade magazines and just the general travel magazines.
trying to keep up on what's going on.
(( )) my
Is it,
wife also gets a lot of the food magazines. BON APPETITE, and FOOD AND WINE and GOURMET.
I used to take that.
she still likes to get TIME
which I've never liked very much
she seems to.
I don't,
happen to find it, I'll go ahead and read it someplace, if I'm in a doctor's office or something like that
other than that liked that really.
Do you read a newspaper?
I read my newspaper.
I can hardly wait in the mornings for the newspaper
to get here,
I do like to read the newspaper. even this little newspaper that Patterson puts out.
In fact, it puts it out on Tuesdays and Thursdays . I can hardly wait to get that to get the local news .
other than that, magazines, I don't know. There's so much advertising in them anymore.
Some of them I used to get for the advertising. Like BYTE magazine which is, one of the
larger computer ones.
I haven't bought it now for about eight years.
when I used to get it, it was about five hundred pages, about three hundred of them advertising.
that was interesting. I think a lot of the trade magazines are like that.
half the fun is finding out what all the products are.
some of the get ridiculous.
TRAVEL AND LEISURE, all of the AMERICAN EXPRESS magazines
TRAVEL AND LEISURE, FOOD AND WINE and I think they have some others, certainly half the pages and maybe more are pure ads plus they have the advertising supplement sections that are supposed to look like articles but are paid for
clear that, bought some of these through wholesalers
they don't care if they make any money on the magazine subscription, they're making everything on ads.
only, subscribe to the things I'm interested in.
I used to be into coin collecting
I used to get the coin magazine, the paper actually is what it was,
I used to get that.
now that I'm into dolls, that's about
all I want,
Have you ever, read or subscribe to CONSUMER REPORTS for any length of time?
I think they're interesting.
But not worth it.
always had this,
one of the reasons I like just to pick up magazines in other fields is that you seem to get a very different perspective.
I've always had this problem with CONSUMER REPORTS that in the areas that I know a lot about, I disagree with them.
I always wonder whether there are people who know a lot about every area disagreeing with them on everything,
what's going on .
picked up now a subscription to one of the travel agent, organization magazines
it's a ridiculous difference when you start reading from their perspective.
their major interest is in commissions
there's very little talk about the quality of places or airlines.
Their major talk is about, commissions and commission rebates and how they won't suggest hotels to people if the commission's not full ten percent or whatever it is
it gives you a different perspective on what people do.
those travel magazines, more or less, show you different countries that you could go to
some of them.
general travel magazines do.
I don't tend to read it for that.
Because I don't expect to be traveling overseas the future for quite awhile.
usually just read through the sections domestic stuff.
I don't know any other magazines I could talk to you about.
I don't take anymore than that .
I don't take much more in myself.
I guess that will be it then
nice talking to you.
Been on the line for awhile.
I almost forgot what the topic was.
I know what it is.
let me see.
I, I, I'm kind of,
I don't,
I'm, I'm kind of in the middle.
think it's a great idea
when it comes to me, it's almost an insult,
come from the teaching field.
So do I .
it's just like I don't know. I guess I'd have to go with,
I'd be for it.
I don't know. It's just delicate subject I guess.
I would, I would probably go going ahead and doing it, If it's got to be done for everyone.
I think if it's got to be done for one person in the company, it should be random testing, it should be for everybody.
when they answer the company, I think it'll make it a lot easier
they'd run into less problems.
I don't know, I come from the teaching field too
it sort of,
it's a pro and a con ty ,
I don't know where to stand on it.
I'm more or less, if they told me I had to then fine,
they made me then I'd probably,
if I had my druthers I'd probably say no
just this,
You kind of goes into your privacy
I guess if they,
I guess there's some companies doing it.
seems to be working out
I think what they're basically trying to do, I don't know up here in Massachusetts anyhow, what they're basically trying to do is, any people who had tested positively, getting them into a drug program.
Or rehab program.
anybody who, is, doesn't accept the rehab program then they're, more or less, getting laid off.
think that's really hard to because, you never know. I don't know, it,
that's a,
it's really weird issue.
I'm sort of
on the fence about it.
what's they're coming across as (( is )) some of the companies anyhow.
we can get you into a drug program.
you wear that stigma
Where, a lot of people are saying, I only smoked a joint last night, I don't have any problems
Or something like that,
Then I kind of hear it goes into
this is just something I've heard that it kind of goes into just your off the counter medication that you could be taking for a cold. That it kind of affects that too.
Anything with a,
if you drink a lot of caffeine or,
I didn't know that.
somebody was me if you drink it in,
an awful lot of caffeine, that that can show up as a positive test.
I know I'm an epileptic
I'd probably test positive
things like that
I'd have a heck of a time explaining what drug is in my system, .
a lot of times, those are the things I don't like to disclose to an employer because then they don't want to have anything to do with you .
it's very personal.
I wouldn't want to have it disclosed because
See that's,
then I'd always wonder if they fired me, why did you fire me .
That's where I kind of get into,
it kind of gets into your personal life,
(( )) kind of next.
hits me as the Orwell thing. Big brother is watching .
The what?
his book. big brother is watching.
you're being controlled.
That type of deal
I sh ,
know. Seems awful strange .
I'd hate to have to,
if I had my choice between a company that did testing and a company who didn't
I'd probably take the company who didn't?
Because I feel there'd be more trust in the employee.
I can understand why they need it with all the, train accidents and everything else.
do you think they'll kind of push into the teaching field eventually?
I kind of think they will.
I think they will too because, it's just going to follow.
I don't know. haven't had any of it in our school system.
We haven't either.
hopefully, we won't .
I just kind of think it's heading that way though, It's just, because it's just hitting to close to home with the kids and stuff
I just
I just kind of think it's going to eventually head that way.
eventually it's going to be not only the tea ,
the kids are
going to be under scrutiny, it's going to be the teachers.
if they can test the teachers, that gives them the full right to test the kids.
they, caught everybody.
Yeah .
I haven't been in this situation yet .
parents are not quite at that age yet,
I haven't,
They're not quite elderly, .
I haven't, really been in that situation although they are thinking about my grandmother
that's really about it.
How about you?
Have you been in that situation yet?
not for my parents.
was around, two sets of grandparents, quite a bit,
grandfather in a rest home
that killed him .
Did it
kind of.
there was some other things involved
before he was really active
there was some,
he lost his drivers license
(( I )) couldn't get around and wasn't able to do some things
we ended up just having to put him in a rest home.
he just kind of became a vegetable and died.
That's sad.
that was a long time ago.
That was, back in like seventy three.
I think the way they did things were a lot different back then.
I'm sure they were.
my grandmother, wife
we also put her in a rest home.
She was in a rest home
she was back out because she didn't really need to be there good physical therapist at that place
they worked with her and got her walking and got her care of herself
she was able to come back home
C and
then she had to go back in a couple of times,
mostly it was just because she kind of gave up.
they got her going again.
I guess as far as looking,
I said as what you're looking for, I think you need to look for staff.
Somebody who is willing to a patients and do
do things with them and treat them, like (( they're )) ,
I'm sure expensive.
is .
It is expensive.
grandmother is not in a nursing home
she's in a
apartments for senior citizens
she loves that because they arrange activities for them all day long
they have, where the bus picks them up and takes them where they need to go
she really does love that
she's just concerned about the future,
That, knows it's not going to be like that all the time.
she's just wondering
When she can't take care of herself.
what's going to happen to me
it's, I guess it's so normal to start to wonder about that even if she doesn't need that,
she's kind of asking questions about going to happen, this can't last forever
Does she have a,
is it like a kitchenette type apartment where she can fix her own food if she wants to
she can go down to the cafeteria?
she can
think it is also cafeteria style. Because I, I, I doubt if she rarely cooks for herself.
(( In fact, I )) ,
because remember letters, telling me she'll go downstairs for coffee or something to eat,
I'm assuming it's something like that too.
really like that concept.
have places like that here in Utah
couples can,
husband and wife live there too whatever.
yet they have friendships and relationships and the, of getting together and eating together and all of that.
think it really takes, looking more at the people than even really the facilities.
she lives by herself too.
She seems to like it.
my husband's grandmother is,
in a house on her own
she doesn't really need the care or anything like that
she has her own home
doing really well.
I'm really proud of her.
She's doing really well,
we haven't had to do anything,
then again, she has a lot of support
she's got her mother in town too and things like that
Hopefully, we won't need to go that route .
think that that's the thing that's a little bit scary, a little bit tough about putting them in a rest home is almost like
that, they say putting them out to pasture
of the people that were there with my grandmother were really active.
wanted to do things.
want to go down and play bingo or, play with the oranges ,
Okay, I guess we're on.
Central America, have you ever lived in Central America.
I wasn't in Central America
talking about Latin America, consider Latin America to include Central and South America
I did live in, (( San Polo )) Brazil for four years.
think we should have given up the Panama Canal?
realistically, I,
I don't see Panama Canal that hasn't had a whole lot of usefulness to us recently since it's really big enough to, accommodate shipping that it once did
maybe it would be better that we let the Panamanians run it however, I think, we're certainly justified in, our actions dealing with, Noriega in this ...
there are those that think that the Panama Canal has some considerable strategic importance, particularly for the military.
Interestingly enough my father in World War One, and a civil engineer they offered him a commission as a captain if he would, go in help with the defenses of the Panama Canal.
He had worked for United Fruit Company there,
in fact, they had,
this was in late twenties
they in fact used some of the equipment that had been left over
he turned them down.
interesting most people don't realize how small the canal is.
Have you ever been there?
I haven't.
haven't been there,
I've been to, been to Salvador
in fact, we went back to visit some friends my fathers, that we went in fifty seven I guess.
interestingly enough the canal is quite small and, and realistically could be sabotaged easily.
The thing I find interesting, though, the whole colonial approach
support the Sandinistas do we support,
that Nicaragua, if you gave them a free election, they would vote for the,
Will you,
did you ever studied political makeup there, in Nicaragua.
I have little bit,
I can't say that would be expert on, on the region,
certainly, gets, there,
you've got toss up betw ,
so much a toss up but dilemma you want a country to have own, dominion, or its free rein over own people.
on the other hand, government in power that under to be popular support, the Sandinistas had to a given extent popular, support, starts making overtures to the Soviet Union. into what we consider our sphere of influence
in this dilemma over, United States in democracy self determination, where
on the other hand we believe in self preservation and, but are terribly concerned about, what's considered to be the United States sphere of the world which is not only, we used to see spheres
now we're in a situation where the United States like we're it now.
the interesting part about it is that, if, realistically it was economic.
I don't know if you read any of the history on where the Panama Canal
there was an option to build it across Nicaragua,
there's a big lake,
from a technical standpoint it wouldn't have been a lot more difficult to have built it in Nicaragua,
United States, had some,
I've forgotten what the political influence was
there were economic ties then.
The issue
it's in the economic interest of the United States, do we go in prevail
in other words do we make the world safe for democracy,
if there's no economic benefit,
I think particularly looking at the peasant, whether he's in Central America, regardless of where he is, better off under communism or Democratic government.
You look at Salvador where the,
he doesn't care as long as he's feeding family.
the question is, does the government make a difference.
If they'll mostly leave him alone,
I think that's the difficulty we have that, reality any difference if he has no income.
apparently even some of our alleged, Central American leaders that, are mostly democratic have done some pretty terrible things,
yo ,
in looking, bu ,
if you look at the region
to their detriment they came from, this, hundreds of years of Spanish control
Spaniards have, horrible history of corrupt, government, greedy, rulers who have been, their public for good.
if you go back to the kings conquistadors coming in the things they did to native tribes,
the things that Custer did look trivial.
you get,
interesting, look at the exploitation
we accuse some other people of exploiting them
Americans a pretty good reputation of exploiting,
went in took it.
we set up ...
we stole it fair and square,
I think is,
Roosevelt didn't have the reputation, speak softly and carry a big stick nothing
what's going to be interesting is to the see what the economic impact of region, at the moment, the tremendous drug traffic through there,
the idea
America's role there
other things going on, seems to have lessened,
you've still got, Cuba that some influence.
thing I see about Cuba though, is, after Fidel Castro dies, I don't think they'll be a communist power anymore.
can't see communism in that country carrying on past him.
when you take situation where I think in particular in Salvador where there is a significant under class ,
having lot of difficulty, surviving, the question is be better off under communism.
I don't know that I would advocate communism
the question is can, can a democracy, afford the,
it's like the street people that are starting to show up all other the U S,
that's essentially an underclass
when you get enough of them, communism would feed them all.
Ye ,
don't know if maybe communism is word for it
what we would,
there would have to be some kind of,
may be a point might want to consider some kind of socialistic, organization or socialistic set up deal with the problem and then be able to gradually transform back to a democracy.
if the guys got some incentive,
if he's got,
can raise enough, coffee and bananas to, where he's got something to protect,
whether he can export or at least, set up trade and all then democracy of a considerable interest.
cocoa leaves sell real well right now, it seems,
as well as some other various things that are growing in tropical environments.
I don't,
it's going to be hard to,
where your absolutely right is we've got to do something in that region to encourage, or him growing bananas profitable again,
question is, if somebody offered a thousand dollars a day grow something in your backyard, would you do it.
not that we could be bought,
I've got to watch what I say here,
I never know when the D I A may be, listening on my phone .
of course, everything we're saying is being recorded
Of course,
of course.
it's tempting,
horribly tempting for peasants.
Particularly, if you're hungry.
just a matter having an extra car or having a better car, this is a matter for them feeding themselves their wife and their family
there's a certain degree of honor in being able to feed your family
there's dishonor in not being able to do it
starving to death is whole lot of fun either
when somebody comes in an offers, I think that's one of the real problems, particularly the, religious organizations, the Catholic church has been accused of a lot of things.
In reality, I think, what they were doing is basically going in and trying to feed some people and help them protect themselves,
not that they,
not sure the Catholic church is particularly political
if ...
I was wondering whether you were in favor of statehood, independence, or the status quo for Puerto Rico.
I was a resident, although very young what is now the state of Alaska in nineteen fifty nine when Alaska stopped being a territory and became a state.
I guess I have a left over positive feeling about the question even though I don't know very much about Puerto Rico.
I know that all the things that happened, relative to that territory in Alaska have been very positive,
I have a suspicion I believe that statehood is a good idea whenever you have a territory the size of Puerto Rico one ought to make it a full fledged state let it go, one or the other.
What is your situation?
guess I don't have close experience an area becoming a state as you do.
my concern is the economy because as I understand it Puerto Rico has a very low of living or at least, annual average income.
part of this I suppose is justified that the climate they don't need, perhaps, the heating and the housing that some of the more northern territories need.
However, in that case, I guess I would favor status quo.
I have been to Puerto Rico found it very, very interesting.
I did Peace Corps training there.
that's very interesting.
I saw it, also as a young student
it was very foreign in a certain sense, although I had grown up in California
the Spanish was no problem.
very lovely
the people seemed very friendly nice.
I have,
I work with, a girl from Puerto Rico
I guess I have never thought to ask her what she favors,
Your concern on the economy was one in terms of, if it became a state would that put even more pressures Puerto Rico, or pressures on the U. S. in terms of aid
probably more terms of the U. S.
not quite sure how the U. S. copes with this sort of thing.
I've live most of my life,
I guess been very cut off.
I lived actually in Lebanon,
I was very cut off from press as I, was becoming an adult.
I don't know how the U. S. would cope with, a new state that is so very, very poor.
I guess, we'd have a lot of aid, you consider the inner cities of New York how much aid it needs.
I suppose would require such aid.
I guess, we're assuming Puerto Rico would be per capita significantly more poor perhaps Mississippi
I think so.
that's something I guess I have not much of an image of other Puerto Rico as a tropical island and consequently large numbers of barefoot natives or something not in a (( perjuritive )) sense but in a, in a carefree sense, I guess.
Although I'm aware of the political problems and unrest, also difficulties they have. I don't know whether improve their economy.
know that of being a state would have any impact them.
I guess they would have the ability to do some taxing that they don't have now.
of course if their economy is weak is not much of a base on which to tax.
I don't know if they suffer in a sense of income loss as being, since they aren't a state, whether there are monies that escape them so to speak because they aren't able to tax like a typical state would be.
How do you feel, though, about,
I guess it's to their advantage to be a territory,
I wonder how been in a territory but only as a young student
my parents were in the military at the time
they didn't have ready negative feelings about being Alaska at the time since they voted absentee.
would imagine that it must be a little bit of a feeling of second class citizenry, to be in a territory that large and not being able to vote.
The District of Columbia people, for instance are quite frustrated, I think, at times in their not having a Senate representative.
those, are good points, which obviously I had never thought about.
I don't know, I suppose they also, not being a state are probably freer to determine their own, ways of life than they would
I'm trying to think exactly what is imposed if they would become a state versus a territory.
Perhaps compulsory education.
I see what you mean,
and taxes .
taxes would undoubtedly be occurring.
I don't know, I don't even understand exactly how taxes are handled in a territorial situation.
frequently the laws in a territory in some ways as stringent as they are in other states,
I'm thinking in terms of education.
then again each state sets its own
I don't know how a territorial governor takes care of something like Puerto Rico.
it's interesting because I haven't thought of them in terms of the problems relative to, economy, I had thought of it more in terms of political, realization
I guess I had automatically made the assumption that, anyone would rather be a state of the U. S. than an independent country
I thin ,
one, one thing that I remember hearing in the news the past couple weeks that might be significant is that they've recently voted that Spanish is the official language, which I always assumed it was anyway.
if they've just taken such action, it would seem to indicate to me they're doing it because they're afraid they might become a state and want to declare this before they become a state, maybe because they don't want to become a state for fear of losing the Spanish, or Hispanic heritage.
that's interesting too.
it sounds as though you are in favor of, status quo.
believe I would probably tend towards that.
I think, having listened to you relative to the economy thing, I think if I were being forced to make a decision I would plead ignorance and wait to do more research before picking one of these.
in favor of status quo also at this point,
that's interesting.
(( leaning )) towards the statehood.
What about they demanded to have Spanish as the official language as a condition for statehood.
I think I would be troubled,
that any of our states,
constitutionally I don't think there are any prescriptions against that decision even if Louisiana chose to go with Creole or something.
I don't think there is any prohibitions.
I would be bothered by that.
bothered by any tendency to resist what I think was one of America's strengths
that's the melting pot.
am particularly fond of a number of ethnic cuisines,
I'm troubled by too close a clinging the past
I'm also realizing a common language, I think, is the ultimate bond of a country.
Canada, I guess, comes to my mind as they're going through the throes up there relative to French Quebec and whatever.
that think that would be a negative step to make
I think that that they would need to reassess that.
I'm troubled even in by bilingualism, in so far that gets in the way of the melting pot aspect.
That's interesting because although I tend to be bilingual, Spanish based on experience, I was in bilingual education in California
I didn't have any problem with my students
I noticed brother, who was quite a bit younger, was learning Spanish in elementary school
he can't speak a word.
obviously it didn't work in California.
I'm rather in favor of people being bilingual,
I'd be quite happy to see a national law in which every student was required to learn English and a second language.
disturbed by a country that attempts to be functionally bilingual at the official level.
I see.
concerned about whether or not that causes fractiousness I guess.
I think we have gone to time
I appreciate your having called.
thank you very much.
Good bye.
what are your opinions on it?
let me preface it.
I'm a,
I was a staff officer in Vietnam, in sixty nine and seventy
I'm in active reserve now,
I'm probably not going to have the (( )) you think I would have.
I was an interesting, in that I think that he gave the American people a sense of the fact wars are really run by politicians. *
are you old enough to remember the war?
N ,
not much.
I'm twenty eight,
I really don't remember anything about it.
I guess I was about ten when it ended.
I was born in sixty two,
when did it end?
December seventy two, was when we bombed North Vietnam, and then they released the prisoners in early seventy three,
time frame.
I was ten,
I don't remember a lot about anything at that time in my life very much in,
I think,
great detail.
significant thing today did you see Barbara Walters interview with Schwartzkopf?
I didn't,
(( )) .
did read the book.
I ha ,
do ha ,
I have six years of college,
I did read, and study about the Vietnam war though.
I am pretty fa ,
I'm more,
familiar with it than,
your perspective on it?
that there was a lot of rebellion in our nation, and that, I think it was the right thing to do, to try and not to take away, to, (( just leave their freedoms there )) and to, get rid of some of the atrocities that were going to.
know, I don't really,
I'm tired of pacifist though, *
on the other hand, I'm a pac ,
I'm really struggling with it.
Am I a pacifist, physical pacifist, I'm a Christian,
I believe that the real warfare is not with Saddam Hussein, or the North Vietnamese,
it's in spiritual kingdoms, and that the real warfare is done, in your prayer closet, on your knees.
in a way, in a sense I'm a pacifist,
I'm really not. You know what I'm saying?
I don't think just lay back and not do anything.
I think, lets go to war, *
let's go to war praying,
let's go to war for that way
the difficulty I have, is that, are we our neighbor's keepers.
this is what I find particularly difficult in that, if we see injustice, and weather it's in Chicago,
or, or Dallas, think if we see it, we see John Wiley Price hollering injustice, I think that's wrong.
the question was there injustice in Vietnam,
there injust in Iraq Kuwait, *
the difficult, point to, where do we step in,
I think that's the part I have difficulty,
the, the other part is, when your, when your looking at Vietnam, and you say, is fifty eight thousand lives worth it. *
I don't know that anything is worth fifty eight thousand lives.
Still have a problem with,
I haven't come to an absolute conclusion on my opinion on this,
I know other Christians would disagree with me.
My husband and I, are kind of not even in agreement on this,
we don't fight over it or anything,
how can,
the Bible says bless your enemies and bless those that curse you,
it's like, be gentle unto all men, apt to teach, patient, kind,
it's like how can you,
I don't know, for me,
I don't know, I can't say that I agree with Vietnam, because how can you be gentle unto all men, then shoot them.
other issue is do you allow injustice. Just like policeman Los Angeles
could you stand there and watch them beat that guy.
If your brother or your sister were being beaten,
by the authorities do we step in?
In some cases we would,
think that's what makes it so difficult.
It is a difficult thing.
vengeance is mine sayeth the Lord,
I will pay.
I think God is ultimately in charge of what goes on,
I know, like now (( )) in China he did all these terrible things, *
they were
he was going to be accountable for them,
if you look back, and you say wait a minute, while he was in power, he built roads, he put in all the temples, unified the Chinese language.
It was impossible for missionaries to accomplish anything in China
(( )) .
because of all that,
even in North and South Vietnam, I bet you'd see the same thing, and that now he builds roads
(( )) he dropped dead, twenty five years premature, he dropped dead,
something good did come out of that, in that now, you see what I mean, if like now,
difficulty that it's just, you take the (( )) feed my sheep
and the question is, who are my sheep,
the idea, do we go out and feed these people when they're hungry.
Bless your enemies, if your enemy is hungry, feed him,
asks for your shirt, give him your coat also.
if the,
(( )) .
the, the, the South Vietnamese, they asked us to help them.
Is that right?
they did,
I think the biggest difficulty that when your at an (( )) economy like South Vietnam, then reality, was going to pay taxes *
the question is, who was he going to pay it to?
the communists are all alleged democrats.
democratic formed government,
I think, I think, that's a little, difficult part, there,
we didn't understand the culture.
We couldn't,
young lady that was fourteen that worked in the unit I was commander of, that appeared to be eight or nine years old,
the people looked like children
you couldn't imagine that one would conceal a bomb and
and do these kind of things.
I think socially, it really destroyed a lot of the people went over and saw these people.
You just couldn't believe be mean, and, and drop bombs and kill people,
we would turn around (( nay palm )) them, *
I think there was tearing of emotions,
I think that if anything, that, when (( )) he was saying the idea that we learned, learned a lot from Vietnam
in general, bad,
I don't know, the problem is now,
concerned a little bit,
that now that the gulf war is on, that we're going,
I think it was a good war,
it was okay
to go beat up on people,
we need a little more justice at home.
I'm not sure how we get that,
wonder if there's a connection there,
(( )) ,
again, yeah,
I'd say it is wrong to (( ))
I'm not saying president Bush made the wrong decision.
I think I'm lacking in my,
I don't think I can come to a complete conclusion on how I feel about the Vietnam war, because I'm going to interpret that, through the Bible,
I've kind of always,
I've been a Christian five years,
I've kind of avoided those, the war things, and how God approaches that because I think it's just now coming up to where I really feel like I need to decide,
the difficulty is
what I feel.
is if you look in the old test meat, and in the numbers of places that, the Lord went out and just simply struck down, *
that was part of the problem, when they went into the promise land, *
they didn't destroy everybody,
(( )) .
left a woman, and (( a child, and ))
(( )) the sheep.
I think that's one of those things when we get to heaven we're going to ask God .
I know.
Why did you do it that way .
again, though (( Jesus )) the grace pushes you beyond the law, you know what I'm saying,
he didn't just say, enemies,
not only don't kill them, bless them.
therefore when we have an enemy come against us, I really feel like, I know I do feel this strongly, that when, if we had someone come and attack us, the best way to handle it would be to bless them, and humbly go to their other king, or the other ruler, and say, what have we done to offend you.
What can we do to rectify this situation,
that God would move in that sovereignly,
(( )) .
he would get the glory, though, no king, no,
Bush wouldn't, because it wouldn't make any sense, you know what are I'm saying?
It would look absolutely, ridiculously stupid,
it would work out, because, if you follow the scriptural principals, it's going to work out, because that's the best way to do it, *
the thing that then God gets the glory, not a president, not a king,
I think that's a problem for a lot of politicians, is they want the glory.
at the local level, when somebody's assaulted
what do you do, turn the other cheek?
N ,
I believe, personally,
I ho ,
(( )) woman always says, my husband always goes three that, I guess.
broke in my house, I would pray that I would have this faith, to take authority over that,
I know people that have done that.
I know that there have been people who have had people break in their homes, and just say I bind you in Jesus name,
n ,
I just,
rebuke any enemy, because I believe it's a spiritual war that's going on,
it's not normal for someone to come into someone elses home,
(( )) that's not normal,
there's something going on there, and that I would have discernment by the holy spirit to deal with pride over that.
Do you see what I mean?
the same in Vietnam, handle Vietnam the same way, you would handle, Saddam Houssein. *
a problem with all the killing,
I'm not a new ager, I don't believe
(( )) I am not for one world government.
I'm not for all these new age things.
I don't have a problem with, national identity,
I'm an American,
having different nations, and all of this.
I'm concerned about the killing that went on there, because I just feel like God has a better way to handle it, than that,
do you have any favorite teams?
I kind of like them all.
I played for about eighteen years, all the way through college, and then, kind of hung them up after college,
I was going to say, you played pro ball,
not quite.
Not quite,
Made it,
made it all the way through four years of college playing ball,
being in Rochester, you probably like the Mets.
I'm a Met,
one of these people who's actually a die hard Mets fan,
and an avid Yankee hater.
one or the other, isn't it.
I find it very strange.
more people,
real Met fans don't like the Yankees
real Yankee fans don't like the Mets for some reason.
a New York fan.
I always found a fan, of one the other,
that of course means that when it comes to the American League my favorite team is the Red Sox
by default, because I went to college also in Boston.
I see,
I like the,
I guess if I had to pick a favorite team, any more, as well as,
I kind of grew up rooting for Philadelphia.
I'm from New Jersey originally.
sort of close enough.
we were thirty miles south of them,
you were pretty close.
right down the river,
what are the Mets going to do this year without Strawberry?
I don't know. a part of me that says that, I'm sort of glad Strawberry went away.
he sort of went away, I started thinking, he was performing fairly well,
he really wasn't worth the baggage,
I think they're okay,
I think they're,
I think they have enough people who are still in their prime,
certainly if you look at them compared to, let's say, eight years ago or something, they're
they're, they're, they're, they're sort of good standing, whereas, they're the eighty six team any more.
I was going to talk to you about that eighty six team .
the year they beat Houston in extra innings,
they (( )) beat Houston in extra innings,
they won the series bye bye sort of a sneaky route, against Boston
when there was the ball that was sort of hit to Buckner (( )) .
I felt real bad about that,
what can you do.
the guy's making millions,
he ought to be able to perform,
That's right,
he was supposedly,
something wrong with him at the time,
his knees were bothering him,
understand that,
I say, if the guy can't play, you don't blame that,
hit it to him,
you blame the team, for putting him in,
for having him out there.
That's right,
I was, I was also, I was in school at Boston at the time.
it was actually wonderful because where I was they were half Met fans and, half Sox fans.
I think we were all pretty much, Astros fans, in the National League Championship Series
there's two fellows from, Brooklyn,
they were pretty much without having to say, they were pretty much Mets fans .
have been scared after the,
not really,
they were pretty much thugs,
they weren't scared very much, .
that's good,
they're Brooklyn boys, I guess.
You don't expect them to be, much of anything but thugs.
I know. I was born there.
I was also born in Brooklyn,
I can call myself a Brooklyn thug, although I'm really not.
I'm not to say that all folks from Brooklyn are thugs,
these two were definitely thugs,
they were from Brooklyn .
I'm kind of hoping,
I guess, any more
I pretty much pull for the Rangers though.
they're they, they have, I think they have the best facilities in the major leagues.
I love going to watch a game in Arlington stadium.
It's great.
I think I make something, because I think,
in as much as sort of fan support helps.
it's good to have,
The only problem is it's not large enough.
It only holds about,
I think they, when Ryan struck out his five thousandth player, they squeezed about forty thousand people in there.
it is kind of small.
they have plans,
the owner tried to move them to Florida
they ended up sticking around in Arlington,
they're going to build a new stadium in Arlington, as a matter of fact, not even in Dallas,
that's great.
something that we're looking forward to.
that'll be nice,
I think, tends to keep,
I think stadiums (( )) work tend to keep people happy.
case in point, Toronto.
have you seen a game up there?
I haven't been to any Toronto games yet.
boy, I saw it, I was up there on business, last June and watched a game in the sky dome.
It was just phenomenal.
probably the pattern for the future of stadiums, I think.
Of stadiums, yeah,
to get up there.
best I've been up here so far, state New York
is, is, Rochester Red Wings game.
is Rochester,
is Cornell University.
Cornell is in Ithaca.
Cornell is about, somewhere, about two and a half hours and east of us.
if you know where Lake Ontario is sort of.
Rochester is right on the shores, isn't it?
we're about ten miles south of Lake Ontario.
whoever built the city was an idiot, in my opinion,
because far enough from the city that it actually couldn't be a port city.
they say that from that space needle up in Toronto you can see the lights of Rochester on a clear night.
hadn't actually known that.
we have triple A team here
the Redwings, which are
they're a farm team for the Orioles.
everybody hopes that, they go all the way around here.
There's the,
they're the big team in Rochester.
Those games are fun to watch.
you watch those games?
we make a point of going to a bunch of them every year because they're fun.
Lots of really big,
lots of local fans, small stadium,
they'll get a crowd of less than ten thousand sometimes,
I'll make a day game or something.
they really seem to,
people really get into it.
again, I can't make any predictions about them,
I suspect they'll go, they'll go fly.
we used to like watching,
folks lived down in Beaumont,
on the campus of Lamar University they used to house the Beaumont Golden Gators who were a double A team for the Padres, I think,
were fun games to watch.
I think those are more fun than major league games sometimes.
Someti ,
there's definitely a lot more hitting .
it's true.
One of the advantages of not having pitchers who are
when you start pitching real well, move them up. (( )) .
as far as the major league teams, I don't know, the Rangers have been,
every year they always knock on the door early, and then just go into their skid about, the end of June.
got so much young, raw talent,
it's just amazing,
they just haven't been able to put anything together.
see it, is,
I can use a Met analogy here.
If you'll think back a few years to when the Mets were just all this sort of young bunch of guys who really were raw talent but weren't very sort of, well trained
back to, maybe eighty, eighty four or eighty three
or eighty five, quite the eighty six team that they were.
that probably gives the readers a good shot for you this year or next year, I think, if, I think, the young talent really just has to build itself up.
young for a while,
they're starting to age a little bit here,
I just,
really hurting pitching wise.
they've got Ryan,
who knows what he'll be able to do.
He's been,
last year he started having some nagging injuries,
be interesting to watch.
I hope to get up there.
usually try to get to opening day game.
There's several guys from our church try to go up there.
that must be nice.
guess we're a hundred fifty miles south of Dallas.
that isn't too bad. Just a couple of hours.
not too bad,
it takes about two hours, two and a half hours to get there.
it takes me a good seven hours to get to Shay Stadium.
I don't know.
That's probably because of the roads.
You just don't have,
just got a freeway.
We just get right on the freeway and just go north.
I can take a highway the whole way down,
it's so crowded up there.
it's, it's almost four hundred hou ,
it's almost four hundred,
barring traffic, it's four hundred hours,
four hundred mil ,
four hundred hours,
four hundred miles
barring traffic,
it's, it's a heck of a drive.
We are substantially north of New York enough that,
we don't get to go play
too often.
like a boat ride from,
how far is it across the lake to Canada?
Toronto's only about two hours,
Toronto, I want to go see.
you drive there,
do you take the ferry, or what?
I can,
I've heard about the ferry as well.
Haven't taken it yet, though.
Have you taken it?
beautiful city.
really love,
I think that's one of the most, enjoyable things about being up here.
I'm only up here for school.
you go back to New York after school?
probably south, maybe Texas .
Some place south, and warm,
I don't,
cold fan.
what kind of weather are you having right now?
right now we're actually having,
it's getting nice.
it was in the high fifties today,
three and a half weeks ago, we had an ice storm .
we've been up in the, seventies, eighties, even up in the nineties a couple of weeks ago.
that's great.
about that same time branches were falling off everywhere,
we were actually in a state of emergency for two weeks.
Because of the ice?
it, didn't make the news too much, which I find really weird
we were,
all schools were closed for a week.
There were certain parts of town where it was illegal to drive.
they had so many power lines down
many, things like that,
they were ...
can, be recorded while we talk about it.
is your,
does your city have mandatory, recycling?
we don't have mandatory.
kind of slow up here,
we've just started doing recycling probably last summer.
it's all voluntary.
that's interesting.
Cities have a mandatory recycling?
some places that are strongly encouraging it,
that they city will pick it up.
That's been one of the arguments here.
I'm just sitting here looking. We've got four bins of glass and plasticine stuff.
we have to carry it, some distance,
some places, you can sell your, recyclables,
for example, our church was collecting newspapers.
when I was a kid we used to collect newspapers and bring them to a recycle thing.
We got like a penny a pound for them.
it turns out that so much,
the problem in Texas is that, they've got so much paper now from people recycling that they've got no way to, reprocess it.
essentially a paper mill to recycle it,
the value has gone down.
It turns out it wasn't worth for the church to do.
I didn't realize,
you would think,
now up here, suppose they send it all back to the mill
there are paper mills within a couple of hundred miles of,
there is one in northern Vermont.
there's probably a paper mill that's sixty miles from here.
I didn't think that,
in the large city that is more like five hundred miles away
it's a lot of money to transport.
Dallas there no plan to build,
I think some in East Texas there's some pulp mills,
you have to go to Houston,
it's interesting,
there's places that will buy metal
they still buy aluminum can and likes that. *
Do you have to buy metal,
copper is a very good one to collect.
Even aluminum,
we do the recycling,
our city will pick up our recyclables.
They have these little blue bins.
I don't recycle personally.
saying I want to do it,
I don't get a lot of magazines,
I don't get a,
I don't buy the newspaper,
I do have a lot of,
my trash has a lot of tin cans and different papers and cardboards.
do you drink soda and such in aluminum cans?
we have a bottle return.
A lot of the northern states and a lot of the Eastern states have bottles.
We've had five cent deposits on our bottles for years.
it's worth taking them back.
we don't have.
most of our soft drinks are in plastic liter or two liter bottles.
they should definitely get, the nickel returnable.
It's great for the kids, because
a lot of the kids get the money from it,
it's great for the boy scouts running around, they knock door to door and the collect the bottles sometimes.
that's it,
there is a down side to all this, about no good deed going unpunished,
that, my mother sells, trees that they make paper out of,
every time I recycle newspapers, in fact
Kimberly and Clark, the makers of kleenex and such
has big paper mill.
In fact I almost went to work for them.
I was offered a job and turned it down because my mother got it for me.
It's twenty or thirty miles from my house.
Every time you recycle, that's one less tree my mother can sell,
it's a question should I be diligent and,
And recycle.
and, and recycle, and put my mother out of her livelihood.
I see that.
it's an interesting point, though, that, everybody's so anxious to recycle,
I suppose it does provide some gainful employment,
it takes away employment from the resource
its (( )) .
in general I think it's a good idea because
I do, too.
like the glass, you can't argue that the glass,
it doesn't biodegrade, the plastics obviously,
They don't either
we might as well recycle those.
like I say, it's not a very controversial thing.
Everyone thinks we should do it.
It's just that we're so lazy,
personally, I don't want to clean my,
I just have can cat food.
I don't want to clean the can and take the label off it, and put it in a separate bin.
I'd just rather get rid of that thing and throw it in the trash.
that's what we've got.
We started about, New Year's we decided we'd get ambitious.
we took one load over there,
now we've got these containers filling up with stuff,
it's not a very high priority thing to go haul these containers over there.
I think I would be like,
when I bring my bottles back. If they're pretty clean and stuff, so they can sit in my cellar for a couple of months,
I get a whole bunch of them
if I had a recycling center and I kept it clean, like if I washed all the cans and things, I wouldn't mind if it sat around too much,
it stunk or something I wouldn't like doing it.
I produce quite a bit of trash,
my, house,
I see it,
I don't see so much that I can recycle.
Like I say, it's a lot of different type paper and cardboard.
I'm not a real plastic person user, but a lot of paper, pretty much,
I don't know how they sort that.
I used a lot of can goods and I do use a lot of laundry detergent and a lot of plastic bottles, I would think that have a recycling center.
now, it's just me and my husband,
I don't know.
every little bit helps,
I know what you're saying.
a very aggressive recycling at work,
I'm the one who will pick the newspaper out of the trash and bring it to the recycle bin.
some people, the recycle bin is on their way out.
Instead of carrying your newspapers, when they get done with them at the end of the day, they throw them in the trash.
do you have separate trash cans at your desk.
we don't,
offices do.
They have a box for papers.
one that's recyclable then for lunch sacks and waste food
they gave us a list of things that aren't re ,
it turns out it's not so bad.
get a lot of reports are covered in plastic or like saran wrap or something, D anyway,
cardboard, there's a few,
it's interesting that recycling computer type paper.
one day they'll pick up,
the cleaning people come through and they'll pick up recycled paper,
the next day they'll pick up the other,
Depending on how much,
there's a lot of, it works pretty well,
we have a, waste, cans for aluminum break areas at work.
a really good idea, because, our, fruit juices for some reason when they're in a can don't come with a deposit.
they're thinking about putting a deposit on them, because you're having a whole separate recyclable bin just for these fruit cans, where they're
so much easier just to put a deposit on it, because probably ninety percent of the aluminum cans do have deposits, because they're beer and soda,
when they sell juice, it's some strange quirk in the law, you don't have to have a deposit on it.
even like, very fine juice jar does not have to have a deposit on it,
if it's got soda in it, it does.
it's a strange.
That's an interesting distinction.
that up.
It wouldn't take them much to put a stamp on the, juice cans as easily as the soda.
redemption centers are a big thing up here,
they get a penny a can they handle.
They give you five cents when they return the can to the distributor.
I think they get a penny two pennies a can.
those of us that don't have state income taxes,
that's the big debate here in Texas, that the legislature wants to put one in,
it's interesting what people get upset about,
it really is.
return down there a heated debate?
big issue when we moved here a few years ago, is whether it was okay for you, to, drink beer while you were driving your pickup truck.
And throw it out at the in
here you can't drink,
We're not civilized now, drink beer and drive,
actually legal.
I know, I was in Atlanta,
you could walk out the bar with your drink in your hand.
here, Let me put that in a paper cup for you.
that was strange.
I think,
if some people they have,
they say, we're not going to start a can deposit because you have to get all recycle center, you have to deal with the can and then you have recycle it,
their problem's already solved because they can just come to states that do have bottle deposits
see how they handle it,
see if it's a good way,
do it that way. Because, like I say, people are making money on it.
the other,
The cans are worth something.
the other thing is, it also is good habit, to, just to conserve resources, because you get in the habit of that, you think in terms of, of things like saving
do you exercise regularly, Judy?
I try to ride the stationary bicycle every day about five miles
I love to walk,
if I have a lunch hour with nice weather I get out walk.
What about you?
I, exercise regularly.
I work at a university,
I swim almost every day
very good.
upwards of a mile,
Washington is one of my favorite places to visit.
my daughter lives in Arlington,
when I go to visit her, I love to get out on that bike trail, and ride the bike,
you can ride a bike practically all the way to Southern Virginia
or just get out and walk, or even jog a little, although I don't do that regularly.
Washington's a great place to do that.
lots of bike paths.
I know, my son is a biker
done the whole (( )) canal, I think it's a hundred and eighty miles, with the scouts.
that somehow takes,
For me, it's much easier just the stationary bike,
it's at home, do some of my reading,
Do you live in the District?
I live in Maryland.
I think there're so many parts of the District where it's not very safe to get out and walk.
that's it,
at work we have nice campus,
I'm able to, take advantage the environment here.
the neighborhood, also.
we're within walking distance stores and shops
I do.
I think,
basically, is your motive simply, health or because you enjoy it?
really both.
I'm certainly driven by the desire to maintain my weight and be healthy and be in shape,
most of the time I enjoy it.
Sometimes I don't,
I feel the discipline it affords me when I do it when I don't want to is also worth something.
I think pretty much you summed up my motivations also.
I often find that even when I don't feel that much like exercising,
like I'll be really tired,
I'll start swimming,
actually get energy.
I'll have much more energy when I'm done than when I started,
I just feel great.
That happens to me probably one in four or five times that I swim.
that's great,
that's great.
that's really a terrific feeling, because you just go there at the end of the day, and you figure, I'm ready for bed
and you exercise and then, it's sort of painful for a while,
by the time you get done you feeling really terrific.
summer I like to swim.
We don't have facilities for swimming in winter,
that's true, when I go home from work at the end of the day, if I go up for an hour in the pool, I'm much, much more awake,
I'm ready to work in the garden or whatever in the evening.
can I just ask you, are you Canadian?
I'm not.
I'm trying to because funny vowel that's probably going to drive the T I people crazy.
Say out, instead of out you say out.
Did you know that?
I don't know that.
must say, that, I did do a linguistics course school, ages ago, the professor had a lot of trouble with my accent.
it's probably because I was born in the Chicago area and grew up in California,
at that point that was sort of the limit
since then I've been abroad a lot,
I see.
It's a mixture.
I know this isn't on our topic,
where did you grow up in California?
In Santa Barbara.
I grew up in North Hollywood, California
I see.
went to U C L A and all that.
very good,
I think we've probably each other's exercise habits
it was nice talking to you.
same here.
Thanks for calling.
Bye bye.
I'll tell you, my situation is, I have an elderly grandmother that we did just recently put in a nursing home.
her son, which is my father is also elderly,
this is one of the reasons why she had to go to the nursing home, is that she was literally driving him nuts in his later years.
my father's almost eighty.
My grandmother's almost ninety seven.
it's strange, because hit so close to home that my father's an only child,
really me and my sister are the only ones that will deal with my grandmother.
She had many sisters,
a couple of them took care of her.
one, her last sister died,
it was probably seven or eight months after that she had to go in a nursing home. Because I was pretty much giving up my life, my sister was, and plus she was driving my father crazy.
She went through three
she's kind of cranky to get along with.
There's nothing physically wrong with her, except she's very, very old,
her personality very grating.
I hope I don't get like that when I get old.
I have some great concerns about, my parents and my relatives reaching that age.
around here, where I live in Maryland in the Washington area,
I used to live down in Dallas, there was just so many stories about, rest homes where the people are being abused, where the people are being kept in filthy conditions.
In fact, here in Baltimore they've actually shut a couple of them down and taken all the people out of them because they were so, bug infested and rat infested.
it really concerns me, that, first of all, that anyone could let someone live like that,
if you have to, how do you make sure,
I'm sure when you make your appointment and go by, everybody puts on a happy face,
how are you sure that the home is really as good as it is, because once you put someone into there, they may not like the fact that they've been put in there,
they might complain about the place all the time even though it's the best place in the whole world they could be, just because they want to make you feel guilty for putting them in there,
you don't know if their complaints are legitimate.
we don't have that problem up here.
We might maybe in a rural,
maybe there's home in a rural area,
it would be a very small one.
the one my grandmother's in is very, hospital like.
There were some really nice ones here.
All the,
a lot of the nursing homes around here have very good reputations.
this one is more or less for someone who's poor and can't go there,
my father's, he's no by no means wealthy,
he's quite well off.
he could easily have put her into a nicer, home,
up here there's waiting lists.
that was the first one that opened.
I suggested to him, Why don't you change.
he said, these people very nice to her.
he was saying his excuses, if you move her some place else, the people might not be so nice.
professionals in the nursing homes really have to want to do what their doing, because it's a really trying job.
I go up twice a week to see my grandmother,
I know the staff very well.
hide anything on you or anything like that.
I have heard of really awful conditions, especially down the southern part of the the country which is.
that's true.
last time my mother went down there to visit place where my grandmother was staying at was so overrun with roaches that, they went in and she had roaches crawling on her.
There were roaches even in her alarm clock.
that's terrible.
it was absolutely horrible.
They took her immediately out of there,
they just threw everything away she had from there.
they wouldn't even take dresser that she had that was her own dresser, because it was just, full of bugs.
They just left everything. And, bought her all brand new stuff,
had called a home were on a waiting list to get into there and explained to the person that was in charge, what had happened, and that to take her out of the home because of the conditions.
amazingly enough, the very next day they had an opening,
they put her into that opening.
that's good.
is your grandmother, impaired?
Is she of Alzheimer's or something like that?
I'm not sure, what exactly is wrong with her.
Up until nineteen eighty two,
I'm sorry, not until,
I guess it was around eighty two, eighty three, I found out I had a grandmother.
Prior to that I was told that she was dead,
apparently what had happened was that I had a grandfather who, put her into a mental institution.
that does happen.
it was a real hush hush thing
I was wondering why my mother always referred to, his second wife as that hussy.
my neighbors across the street, their mother was sick at times,
couldn't handle her.
they put her in a home,
the old Frenchman, he'd get a little drunk look round at his kids, you still need your mother.
I guess I'll look after here. *
that happens a lot when people are sick or they just real manic depressants, they end up being put in homes,
it's like,
I'm really glad that I come from an area where, there's good people in the homes.
it's just as,
it doesn't matter if it is, like you say, the best place, they still don't want to go to these homes.
my grandmother's real, there,
she cries every day.
This has been over a year,
she tries to make me feel really guilty.
put my foot down, my life begins.
if that was my mother, I would really feel a lot more responsible.
I would probably take care of my mother.
I don't really,
when my father, when something,
if anything happens to him, I don't want him put in a nursing home just for the fact I don't really want to go and visit him at a nursing home.
hopefully that he can, get along with, in house help.
he's going to probably, hopefully set it up so that he will be able to pay someone to come in and stay with him probably for sixteen hours a day, because I think that's the best situation, is when get that old and you've been independent your whole life, you don't want to go into a home, because, like I say, my father's eighty,
he's really active.
He still has his driver's license here,
you wouldn't believe what he does.
He actually tows cars.
as the years go on, the tow trucks got better, more easier,
he went out and bought himself a flat bed one
he won't have to do very much work.
someone like that, I really don't want to see them go in a home.
He's got two dogs that are his constant companions,
he always replaces them.
about seven or eight different dogs all the time.
it's like,
Dad's got these two
the old dies
the young one goes for a while,
he gets another one.
I can't see him his animals.
Even though it's very expensive to stay at home
mentally it's just the best thing for you.
I know.
when you get on in your years it's the only thing you really have,
I'm thinking when I get older, I think if brought all my precious belongings with me, I think I could live in a home.
I don't want to be selfish, a burden on anyone.
That's what I think, because I see what my grandmother puts me through,
I'm saying that when I get older I could probably make the best of this place,
of course, it's institutional food,
everybody hates it,
it's so ironic is that they go in there and they lose weight.
a bad thing,
when they go into the homes they lose weight, and, because of the institutional food,
I think it's fine,
my taste buds are pretty, flexible,
here always used to these old fashioned foods.
They're very set in their ways and used to have what they could get at home,
now they're feeding them, quiche and all kinds of strange food that we would eat.
they don't feed them the old people food, the chicken and biscuits, and things like that.
the thing my grandmother really misses, really growls about.
my mother has made similar statements, that she doesn't want to become a burden to the family.
Just put me out to pasture, shoot me, or something,
(( )) are the lines that come from her.
I tell her, No problem, Mom, always got a place for you.
I know, if people would think ahead of time and do things like that, like build the in law apartment
and have it on, one floor and really easy access.
that's what I'm telling my father now.
He needs a new floor in his bathroom,
I says, Now is the time. Redo your whole bathroom
you can get in and out ...
what kind of books do you like to read,
for enjoyment?
books I read are, business related,
or self improvement.
I've got small company on the side do things with,
a lot of the reading that do has to do with, how can I, do better my small time business important issues such as a,
What kind of business is it?
taxes and,
business expenses and all those kind things.
What kind of business is it?
I've got a, small distributorship,
I, sell a, healthy cookie on the side.
I have a few health food stores that I send it to.
I can buy the cookies in a larger quantity than they can,
I can get a deal from the supplier,
that's interesting.
I distributed them
I can sell them at a cheaper price.
Plus I've got a, drinking water system business that I've had on the side for years that I've done.
A what?
A drinking water business,
(( )) ,
that sounds interesting .
My mom always wants me to open a health food store
not really into it,
that much about it,
that's interesting.
like mostly
if I had a book of my choice, I go to the library a lot
it seems like I always, I never go to the fiction section,
that to me is just ridiculous,
it's like,
life is to interesting to read fiction
I always get books like,
I like to quilt,
I'm not into quilting
I check a lot of books out to learn how.
I just haven't done it yet because it seems to monstrous to do with a book,
I like to, can and do food preservation,
mostly canning just for fun to go pick the things and just to have fun doing it and to give them as gifts and stuff,
I like to check books out like that
I always come away with,
I'm a Christian
I enjoy reading books about
(( )) I have a real heart for people involved in cults
I have a real, heart for them,
I'm going to bring my Mormon neighbors some Amish bread today
that's just where my heart is
I read a lot of books on that
Christian books written by people to help you out and stuff
(( )) I read the Bible.
I don't read the Bible as much as I should
I think I would always think that no matter what I did
I do enjoy reading that
pretty much we have different interests, I think, in reading,
Sounds like it.
I have a neighbor with a big motorbike
he likes to run down the street with it
can probably hear him.
(( )) I don't know
Do you enjoy reading anything like that?
I haven't really read anything like that in years.
There was a time when I was really into the home things,
I my own garden
I did canning, all those kind of things.
That was when I was about, ten years younger
I had,
Thirty or younger,
Is that what you said?
About ten years younger,
ten years younger,
that's funny.
problem that I've had in the past with, my children growing up and moving out of the house still having three left at home,
out of the five,
I've tried to devote more time to them and trying to get them interested reading more spending more time at the library
I've been moderately successful,
with my daughter and with my son, they both have different interests in books
they do read them.
I have some books health that I read all the time.
One's on vitamins that are good for you and that kind of thing,
(( Maureen Solomon )) . I friend of mine has a book by her right now called FOODS THAT HEAL.
They eat a lot of it,
you can take your vitamins
she was telling me to take zinc,
I've been taking enough zinc, to kill a horse probably
I hope it doesn't hurt me
. I did read one chapter of that .
There's couple called,
I'm going to forgot his name now, Dirkson, *
there's a book called LIFE EXTENSIONS,
I don't know if you've ever heard of it,
I haven't.
It's a book called LIFE EXTENSIONS.
There's also a book called THE LIFE COMPANION,
Dirk Pearson and,
it's a couple.
seen them on T V,
pretty down to earth about what you can take what you can't take
The quantities
The quantities, what are good for you, what isn't
What's the name of it again?
LIFE EXTENSIONS.
LIFE EXTENSIONS?
he's probably about forty years old now,
I saw him probably seven years ago,
on Johnny Carson show
I was pretty impressed.
He had a,
before he started out on his experiments he had a battery of tests done on his body to determine the age of each one of his organs
based on how well it was performing,
he embarked on this, vitamin treatment
every year he had the same tests run,
at the age of thirty two, I think it was, his, heart was that of a fourteen year old
all the rest of his organs were below his actual age.
of course, Sally, isn't a very big woman,
appeared to me to be very petite
she took a horse shoe into an S,
it was all from taking the right vitamins and things give you the strength,
of course, doing Isometric exercises, together they both exercised about five minutes a day,
doing Isometrics rather than, physical strenuous exercises.
I know there's not any food that you can get,
it's grown on good soil hardly anymore,
I know husband's uncle owns some acreage in, Eastland, Texas, which is in West Texas,
he owns a lot of acreage that's been farmed properly,
we get black eyed peas off of it and stuff
I know that, the further we go from Adam the worse the food is for you,
God still somehow makes us all be able to still live.
I think it's a miracle we're all still alive after so many generations,
the last couple of processed foods,
I don't know.
I like to be able to eat really healthy,
(( )) ,
I guess I'm going to have to wait for the millennium, I think though because I think we're going to restore the earth to,
I think Jesus is the only one that can make this earth be restored to what it should be,
in the meantime we pray over our food because I'm always looking down my plate
I think this (( )) stuff was probably grown in who knows what, kind of environment
I do take some vitamins on the side
I do like reading books like that have a hard time, a lot of the books are real new age oriented like Mother Earth
we're going to restore the earth.
I just don't see that.
to think that is almost,
it's hopeless to think that man can do anything with the,
you know what I'm saying?
It's (( ))
I think God's in charge
God's going to restore it when he wants to
sometimes I get bogged down ideology that motivates a lot of health food and motivates a lot of vitamin taking,
there's a balance in it sometimes I read stuff like that
I just chunk off like water off your back, some of it,
try and do I can do out of it that's practical,
read a lot of things, since I got involved in the water business back in eighty three,
it's amazing that legislation they have, for food that doesn't apply to water,
they don't consider water a food
the basics premise is that if water was a food they wouldn't be able to sell it to you through your pipes because it's toxic . chlorine,
Because it's what?
It's toxic.
It's a,
I don't know if your on city water,
city water has chlorine in it,
causes cancer,
they know that,
they've proven that.
yet their saying we're putting such low doses in there, that,
you don't have to worry about dying from it.
The problem is read books that,
have proven that there is a link between the ingestation of chlorine and arteriosclerosis, which is heart attack,
if you look at the history of hear attacks, heart attacks were nonexistent prior to nineteen twenty, *
we started doing, large quantities of chlorination of water starting around, where we experimented with it in nineteen oh three and nineteen thirteen most of the major cities had chlorinated water.
I bet that's why we have some friends that eat only,
I just took this Amish bread out of the oven,
it's going to be good.
I had a starter that friend of mine made,
I had a friend that read a book on that
all my relatives my m ,
you probably read BACK TO EDEN or something,
I don't know,
(( )) we read a lot,
I know people have read all those books
a well, I don't know how many feet
it's three or four times deeper than it needed to be,
their water comes out,
they live in Grand Prairie,
they live kind of in planes go right over from D F W,
it's not real developed,
they have
I'm very familiar with the area.
probably half an acre,
they drilled this well
the water comes out at thirty two degrees,
it's kinds of neat.
Would that be healthier that, to drill your own fresh water well like that?
It depends, things were thought that, as,
the farmers thought, we got chemicals, we're putting chemicals on the field,
the ground will naturally filter out the ...
what kind of house do you live in?
we live in a one story, just like a style home, the standard Texas, Fox and Jacobs.
How about you guys?
with a yard and fence.
Are you in a apartment or a home?
I'm in an apartment in, Plano.
they say those are
they are, if,
kind of depends on what you're looking for.
Mine's just a one bedroom place,
How are rents doing?
I haven't looked at rents in a long time.
it's hard for me to tell, because I haven't rented in, probably twenty, twenty five years
I'm getting back into apartment life,
one bedroom,
are you in a,
complexes in Plano are pretty nice,
you're probably in a,
they vary, from place to place,
it's hard to tell, how well they've been kept up
how old they are,
these are probably, one of the nicest that I found,
they're almost five hundred a month for
a one bedroom place.
that does get high,
it does, considering that, house payments are,
I was going to say,
not a whole lot more than that,
our mortgage between, depending on,
it drops,
seems like in the last six months we, got lucky
we refinanced,
it was like eight hundred and something,
it went down to like seven hundred and twenty
that's really not,
I have friends that pay about nine hundred dollars for a town house
that's a lot for a townhouse.
they're near Plano in North Dallas too,
I couldn't believe it,
that's what happens when you get up in this area, you got all these companies are up here,
I guess they know they're going to get it,
I think that, nobody was really buying houses there for a long time there because of just,
we've been in ours for about ten years,
there's no investment in it,
all it allows you to do is itemize,
that's true,
you just
on your
take off your mortgage interest
on your taxes
that's about it,
that's really about it,
have you ever owned your own home,
I've owned, several, built several,
you know what it's like,
it's like, when you first,
this is our third one,
it's not,
it's not that exciting after a while .
especially around North Dallas, or at least in Plano area, basically all look alike because Fox and Jacobs,
suburban tract,
lived out of state for a while and came back
we lived in a smaller city,
now we say, Dallas really is big and polluted .
Isn't it.
I can remember,
I've only been here eight years,
I can remember coming to work from,
I used to live in Wylie
I could see downtown Dallas,
now there's this brown haze over it,
it's really
it's moving north.
it's really sad because they're not doing anything,
we're getting off the subject, I guess,
just like with housing, they're not doing anything about pollution,
they're not doing anything about,
it's going to look like,
have you ever been to Houston?
I used to think that Dallas was better than Houston because their zoning
for where you can put a house next to a,
now it looks just like Houston to me.
it does.
How long have you been in this house?
We've been in here ten years.
Ten years.
we've some investment in it,
you really don't get anything out of it.
you really don't.
out of state for a while, was that a smaller town than Dallas area.
we were up in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
How was it
My home town.
how were the house prices up there?
The prices, a lot better, because Pittsburgh is about the size, like a Louisville, or Minneapolis, that type of size.
the prices, what you get here for about a hundred thousand you could get there for about seventy five, eighty.
it's really,
we didn't think it was that clean,
after you're gone for a while, it looks cleaner,
a lot of these people that I've talked to that are coming down from, what I call, the back East
Saint Louis, whatever,
especially from J C Penney, are selling two and three hundred thousand dollar houses up there and buying a hundred and fifty, hundred and seventy five thousand dollar houses down here,
they've wound up getting better houses here than they had there
in a way, I guess it works both ways.
I guess it's,
here I guess it depends on what you want,
here, (( )) I got a lot of people that work for J C Penney in marketing
a lot of the people that came from that area, probably like what you're talking about, a lot of property but not a lot of house,
now they have a lot of house and hardly any yardage around it
That's a fact,
they love it.
they think they're getting,
you say, sun room to them, and you enclose and you can sell it .
I guess that's true.
they don't have to worry about yard upkeep if they don't hardly have any.
a lot of them I know, a couple women that work there,
they don't miss, in Public Relations,
they don't miss having a basement to run up and down to,
That's true,
not too many basements in Texas.
I said, You haven't heard about tornados .
How about those,
I remember when I was little, we didn't have a,
I up in southern Oklahoma
people across the street had a cellar,
we never did,
it's just like Dallas area, it was tornado alley up there,
every spring mom would drag me up at three o'clock, four o'clock in the morning and pajamas and teddy bear across the street,
we'd go into the cellar,
to this day, I don't care if I go or not,
if it's going to get me, it's get me.
That's exactly,
I grew up in western Pennsylvania, near Pittsburgh,
we used to call the basements actual cellars,
it's funny to hear that word, because I never hear it,
it's like the back porch used to be a stoop,
the housing is just,
we like the older houses,
I don't know if we're going to stay here or not, depends,
You ever thought about building a house?
Pardon me?
Have you ever thought about building a house?
when we were up north,
some family things changed
we ended up come back down here, and all that, because it helped my husband's work,
we really would like to,
we don't know if we're going to do it unless we stay here,
that's true,
especially when,
with T I it's like anybody else, you never know how long you're going to in one place,
it's real tough,
the economy any more,
I think everybody just lives under an umbrella, the uncertainty with housing
and everything,
Do you work?
Pardon me?
Do you work?
I do.
how do you handle,
do you have kids?
we don't.
you got,
he's working and working to get this big house to take care of,
how do you manage both of those?
how do we take care of the house.
I don't have a Mexi ,
I shouldn't say that,
I don't have an ethnic maid .
I don't have,
we have some friends that live near North Dallas off of Campbell Road,
they have like a four thousand square foot home,
she's got live out nanny.
any rate, I don't have any of that,
I don't know,
it's really not too difficult with no children and just two people,
You basically
We have a,
can take care of everything yourself,
we have a dog,
we're pretty,
we're not fanatically neat,
we keep things up,
not like where there is three feet of weeds or anything in the yard
by the time you need to, get around to fertilizing and cutting in the spring.
What about home repairs and stuff,
do you have to do all that yourself,
we're pretty much,
been around long enough as a couple that we learned a long time ago not to wall paper together
you too.
and things like that.
we pretty much hire,
we subcontract mostly everything
other than anything that's not a,
I know how to fix a running toilet
he does what he needs to,
mostly if it's something major, cleaning out the air conditioning ducts or something like that, we just hire out to do that,
Sounds like you've already got the makings for being a general contractor,
no thanks,
If you don't wall paper it well together, you should probably not build a house together.
Have you ever done that,
you sound like you may have been a couple one time. *
I built three houses in my life
how'd that go?
the building process was a lot of fun
puts a lot of strain on things.
Getting to agree to things, I'm sure,
I also think that once you get to be, certain,
when you get to be thirty something and thirty something gets to be a little bit older
you start,
the dollar value on things
You bet.
I think people that own homes a lot in North Dallas are very materialistic.
you bet.
I know I'm supposed to talk about homes,
own them are the themselves,
spending sixteen dollars a yard for custom draperies, for custom drapes just doesn't ,
to some of them I guess it doesn't matter, that maybe
they've got enough coming in to take care of it,
you see a lot of these people that came New York with Exxon or J C Penney,
it's just a hoot to watch them.
as far as they're concerned, they've come to the promised land,
they've got it made,
was it hard to adjust living in an apartment after being in a house.
you're confined by space,
I had a,
I came out of a thirty one hundred square foot two story
my goodness
I had room for everything,
in fact I had more room than knew what to do with.
I don't know
just seems like always expands to fill available space,
in a way you can travel light.
you can,
you lear , you adjust, you figure out,
apartment dwelling living in terms of general privacy and noise and things like that?
It's not as bad as I thought it was
it's not as bad as I remembered, especially going to college and living in apartments there, you know how noisy that can be.
I do.
there seems to be more a mature crowd in, apartments, at least where I am, even though, there's kids all around
there's people running up and down the sidewalks and stuff like that,
Everybody pretty much keeps to their own turf, so to speak.
pretty much,
there's never really any,
I remember in school,
there's just,
seem like there was a fight or a party or something going on every night
You don't run into that up here, because there's so many, professional people, if you want to call them that
that go spend all day at work
they want to come home
they want some quiet,
Relax and try to go to sleep,
You see a lot of activity outside, people riding bikes, playing ball, or jogging
they're doing this and that,
trying unwind.
I think Plano in general is getting a little more,
it's gotten so big it's almost a town in it's own right.
it's a hundred and what, eighty thousand, something like that.
the price of home,
about seventy eight nine for our house like I said, about a decade ago, not even, about nine years ago,
I'd say they appraised it,
gone up, maybe like five percent
it's an investment,
it's something that,
when you're first married or starting out, you think if you really have something,
you really,
it's just real,
nowadays, with the way the income tax, I think housing is strictly to itemize.
you bet,
the thing gets me is, you never really catch up, you never really finish doing things,
you're always paying for something.
we had, I called them prefabs, just a tract home,
had one of their homes that was nicer in Pennsylvania,
it was an older home,
you buy an older home and you're always fixing things up,
you are, constantly,
there's always something going wrong,
tell me about changes from say twenty years ago, since you were an adult, twenty years ago.
let's see, we assume I was an adult twenty years ago, .
you're able to, vote and go to war and things like that
definitely able to go to war twenty years ago but not vote.
that's right,
that's one of the changes .
Not vote.
That was one of the changes that came about in the last twenty years.
twenty years ago is nineteen seventy,
nineteen seventy I had been married two years.
we had all the great civil rights legislation of nineteen sixty eight,
around here on the, east coast,
we were heavy into affirmative action.
that was great shock for a lot of people.
And, a great disappointment for some people like myself.
I was gainfully employed by Safeway Stores Incorporated.
And, trying desperately to, get ahead with the company.
the problem was that my hair was too long.
(( )) you weren't allowed to have a, mustache or a beard,
jeans just flat out weren't allowed,
unless you worked on night stock,
if you wanted to get ahead with the company,
if you were a, black female you were destined to be store manager in six to nine months,
if you were white male you're talking six years.
that's basically where I ended up.
just flat out couldn't ahead with the company because they were dead in affirmative action.
on other fronts,
is the company now, well represented, demographically, at the higher echelons?
Did it work?
I think so,
I, I stopped working for them in, seventy eight, seventy nine.
I think like all companies, well represented.
everything seems to be fine.
kind of lost touch with the company,
we had a falling out,
as far their management goes, I'm not sure they're better off than they before management wise.
other changes, just people seem to be more outspoken now individually, rather than collectively.
back in the seventies we had, a lot of, protests against the war, and, bring our troops home
things were, more organized.
I've noticed, that now, more and more individual people are speaking out for their own rights rather than massing together.
of social movement and lots of individual movements.
In a sense.
I'm not sure if that was because, eighties was me decade.
The me decade.
everybody was into me,
we are getting back into us.
I've seen, a great deal of change as far as, corporate responsibility and things,
people's response to that, at first not trusting and now, expecting more.
the last ten years that you've been aware.
that I've been aware of, I've,
at least in my own circles I've been aware of an increasing from my generation,
I don't know if I can quite call myself a distinct generation from you,
half generation off, I guess.
I've noticed, a certain increase, pessimism with America no longer being sort of on top.
I had the impression,
there was the quote, unquote losing of the Vietnam war, which was a blow,
it was right around that time when I started becoming a socially conscious adult.
I realize that people of my age have major success in the sense that, you saw the passage of the Civil Rights Act, and, major social change in that sense,
all the changes that have happened in the last, even during my adulthood, have been more incremental.
They've been continual perhaps and good gains have been made,
there hasn't been the same sort of fiery speeches of Martin Luther King or whatever, that has really, galvanized the population.
there's just,
instead there's been sort of an increasing, I don't know, Japan bashing and things like that.
a lot of,
I see among some of my friends and even more among some of my students, who are, maybe twenty, a real sense of, America's losing it.
losing it in the competitive market,
a real knowl ,
a lack of understanding how that could be. In the sense that how could America have gone from being number one, to possibly being number two,
our former enemies and things like that
pessimism growing,
at the same time I think there's a growing environmentalist movement and sense of corporate respon , increased corporate responsible towards, environmental safety and things like that.
that might potentially be sort of the civil right, the equivalent of the Civil Rights Act the near future, in terms of, some real landmark bills passing and things like that.
Such that, people.
The thing about civil rights is people take it for granted now.
my generation can't rest on glow of having achieved civil rights because we were born into an assumption that, there's still some racism
basically things are,
the assumption, things are basically kind of taken care of
there's a notion of fairness.
while still far from perfect, is much more established, I think.
even, I think, along the line of the, goals of civil rights,
there always seems to be some prejudice to someone by anyone.
of course .
It's human nature
don't like the way you look, don't like the way you dress, don't like your hair, don't like, it's just something that always sets people off.
you like someone you don't like someone you're just completely indifferent .
the problem is that ideally the world would like you to be completely indifferent.
I understand what you say about the environmental movement,
been a long time coming,
being a, a very old hippie .
Yes .
if you had long hair in high school in the sixties, you got labeled a hippie
you keep that image your whole life .
No matter what you do.
I've seen a lot of changes, from the original earth day
I'm heavily involved in, my own personal recycling.
We recycle paper,
and cans here at work
I do the newspaper and cardboard and paper and,
all that stuff at home
I'm starting to see more and more recycling centers,
cropping up all over the place here, on the,
east coast,
that's a real change, except it sort of, brings back to the nineteen forties more than anything else .
all this recycling used to be in tact, *
or not all of it,
much of it did.
recycling wartime thing.
they turned around and called them junkyards, and,
started making profits off,
Yes .
them after the war.
now we got to the point where the junkyards, you've got to pay them to take something there,
things have really changed a lot.
I think other part about, America's decline I think has to do with,
A perceived decline anyway, yeah.
the perceived decline, has to do with, the attitudes and the educational system,
I have three children in school right now,
I'm not impressed with the teachers that are teaching them.
I had,
when I was down in Dallas for two years, I had, my children come home from school with papers that were corrected by the teacher that had words spelled correctly marked wrong,
and words spelled wrong not marked as such.
this person's teaching my children?
I had a real problem with that.
say as someone who's involved in education I'd say that maybe one of the changes is that the, role of the teacher has incrementally gotten lower and lower value and society.
relative pay which is a major way we value people, has been poorer and poorer over the years.
there's been cost of living increases
not quite in proportion to cost of living
it's just more and more, a real low income sort of job and very low prestige.
there's old saying those who can do it and those who can't teach,
this is the way of let's make fun of the teachers those are the people who can't do anything.
if you have that kind of social attitude it's hard to get sufficient numbers of people who are going to overlook all of that work for lower pay, work for low social prestige, just because they care about good education.
you get more and more people (( )) and up there because the safety net of those of, average intelligence or something, they can always teach.
I'm not sure if your familiar with the movement they have here in Maryland,
they're trying to get a merit system here in Maryland rather than a, tenure system,
for, all the, elementary, middle school and high schools.
So that the teach ...
what are your favorite T V shows?
One that I can't find anymore which is GABRIEL'S FIRE.
I haven't watched that very much,
is that,
do you like that?
When was that on?
It was usually on, Thursday nights.
On A B C?
I don't know .
it may be that, it was recently replaced, by actually what may be my favorite T V show TWIN PEAKS.
It was same time period,
TWIN PEAKS, what happened was, I think, TWIN PEAKS, off, they moved to a Saturday night for a while. something, I guess, GABRIEL'S FIRE on it, and at Thursday nights,
they moved,
GABRIEL'S FIRE was on C B S, I think,
take that back.
I'm not sure,
anyway they moved it back and forth
that's when PEAKS was back in that time slot as well.
I don't know.
You don't know what happened to GABRIEL'S FIRE then?
I have no idea.
that was on A B C, anyway I don't know what happened to it though.
I don't remember station to another.
I keep forgetting one station.
What's your second favorite?
it's hard to say
I'm sort of a very big TWIN PEAKS fan,
beyond that I just sort of watch anything that happens to be on.
half the time I'm a T V addict
the other half the time I just ignore it
it's really bad.
there's some new shows that I sort of like,
have you seen this (( SHANNON FIELD SHOW ))
it's about a lawyer, it's one of these lawyer shows,
(( they seem )) to be popular these days.
(( there's )) a lot of those (( )) (( Blair )) shows floating around.
is he the reformed, gambler?
finished watching that a few minutes ago, .
a interesting one.
I like that, (( because are )) ,
station now has their own law show.
There's L A LAW,
there's, EQUAL JUSTICE, some other one, LAW AND ORDER or something.
these things that are floating around now. They seem to be popular shows.
Do you like the law shows
I really don't watch that much T V,
what I do is I tape the programs I want to watch,
on the nights I can watch, I'll pick out something.
makes (( logic )) ,
also (( saves a lot of time )) with commercials.
you're not kidding.
Do you ever watch AMERICAN GLADIATORS?
I have.
watched that late,
I guess it's on late Saturday nights or something,
(( that's entering )) the day as well.
have you seen this often?
I tape it.
I tape it because I don't stay up that late to watch it,
I tape it.
I understand, that in England, they play it at normal times because they don't consider that violent,
the reason they have it on here so late is because they consider it a violent program.
I don't know that. *
I'm like, I don't believe this.
That (( don't,
it seems like,
if wrestling is prime time, professional wrestling, it seems like it's just like pros in a wrestling to me,
see any difference though,
I don't either.
don't understand it,
they consider it violent.
I have (( so ever )) ,
I have seen it on, (( where we are )) ,
I live in, (( )) , Rochester, New York,
I think a,
You're in New York?
Where are you?
I'm in Dallas, Texas.
everybody I speak to is in Texas,
in New York
to have,
I think the AMERICAN GLADIATORS is on Sunday afternoons actually around here as well,
I think it's been on,
I think I've seen it during the day.
I know I've seen it during the day in Florida. When I was at my parents down there.
Definitely seen it (( during the day down there )) ,
I don't think it's a very violent show,
I think it's funny.
I think it's a real good concept,
I think it's something completely new.
I think it's great.
I love watching a microbiologist fighting off with a policemen or something else,
I'm going great,
great role model for everybody.
I think so,
sort of learn the importance of sort of physical fitness some mental fitness
I think that people sort of learn good sportsmanship and so forth.
when I had,
was watching it, the, first time I ever saw a microbiologist on there I thought it just goes to prove it has nothing to do with your physical capabilities.
there she was terrific,
she was really terrific.
don't they take people who have some sort of, big abilities like
at least they used to
the first ones I saw they had, a man on who he played college football and almost went pro,
they had woman who was a black belt in karate
the junior Olympics or something
they seem to have people who have very, very big sports backgrounds.
To have
they, away from that sort of,
They hold competitions in Los Angeles in, Florida and Minneapolis, Minnea ,
trying to think of,
I think it's in four places around the United States.
They hold competition
the only requirement is, of course, your skill of passing these tests,
that's how they do it.
that's it.
we had a bar man from here in Dallas area that made it.
There is a woman that, made,
she called herself a craft person
I'm not quite sure what she made.
she made it.
there is no,
your occupation has nothing to do with it.
I just thought they had some,
Strictly your skill.
I thought they had some sort of,
I thought they were just (( poor people like us )) I guess not,
that's great.
maybe I'll try it one day.
I'll get on there one day and see if I can,
do they win,
win money I think, don't they?
I think the last I heard was it's up to about a hundred fifty thousand dollars.
All that for getting tennis balls shot at you at a hundred miles an hour.
that's, just minor.
Just minor little ball here or there,
One little ball here and there,
this guy's beating you up,
I don't know the beating up part.
feel the tennis balls would hurt.
They look like,
they come out with a lot of bruises too.
they seem like a tennis ball
(( it almost )) doesn't look like it's almost livable
(( yeah,
the best )) (( ))
don't think I could handle those tennis balls.
what else to you tape besides AMERICAN GLAD , at,
there anything else?
tape MURDER SHE WROTE.
I like mysteries.
I like mysteries.
I tape, FATHER DOWLING,
because that's another mystery,
I don't have to concentrate too hard on them.
I'm sure that's fun.
most of the lawyer programs like, LAW AND ORDER,
they're not on the times watched because I haven't had T V GUIDE around here in ages.
(( they seem )) to be on later,
always before the news is when I catch them.
tend to, if nothing else is in the town television at eleven o'clock just to watch the news, and NIGHTLINE or something, just sort of get a good think for the day.
Your news is on at eleven?
When is yours on?
I was just in the middle of watching it.
I'm sorry I interrupted,
that's okay.
ours is on,
No problem.
ours is on at eleven
eleven o'clock now here or eleven twenty five now here in New York.
I think do that,
I think they put things on at, eleven o'clock here
I think they put it like eleven o'clock, California time, in California
in the middle they sort of,
central time or mountain time they, they push things back.
I was
(( I'm not sure ))
, Iowa awhile ago, and noticed that everything was an hour earlier,
does your prime time start at seven o'clock?
they have it at six
they have it at nine,
they have one at ten.
even the news
do they have
do like sort of all the regular sitcoms and so forth, start at seven o'clock?
the regular television shows very popular, do they start at,
I'm trying to think.
seven at eight?
let's see they start,
EVENING SHADE at seven
it goes to,
what is it after EVENING,
that would (( )) the eight o'clock here.
that's MAJOR DAD at eight I think it is.
would all start that would all start eight o'clock here,
that wouldn't start at seven.
We have,
at seven o'clock we just have,
old reruns of CHEERS or something from seven to seven thirty, and then something else from seven thirty to eight
eight o'clock is when everything starts.
strange, because yours start at seven and end to ten
ours start at, at eight and end at eleven,
that's why we (( ))
. would actually like it better if everything started at seven and ended at ten.
stopped around here at ten C
and it goes into night programs, at that point which could be one of, many different night programs
it goes into night programs.
that's great.
do you ever watch CHEERS?
all the time.
Do you watch CHEERS
it's at,
that was actually a big dilemma for me now because, and TWIN PEAKS are now on the same time,
Jan, how do they recycle in Texas?
the biggest, way it's going right now, lot, most of the grocery stores
have got, things set up where you can bring in your, plastic, and your cans, and newspapers.
they've just got different barrels setting out
(( )) , I shouldn't say barrels, like big (( John Doors )) or,
whatever they're,
called. Gondolas .
they've got them set outside
Is it,
is it all voluntary?
It's all voluntary.
they do have some places where you can take things and get cash
I think the lot of people don't really want the cash.
they just want to, help recycle. Which is,
what we do.
probably the only thing, sometimes we'll take in
we let the kids get the money for that.
f ,
a lot of projects where Boy Scouts and things, that will,
collect your cans
it's a good fund raiser for the kids.
That's true,
that's really biggest thing around here is the grocery stores participating.
I guess, I,
I guess it depends on your landfill space.
I know, I,
we're in Maryland,
I from Pennsylvania *
my parents are forced recycling,
all plastic has to go into a recycling bin, all cans have to be recycled, all newspapers has to be recycled.
Because just running out of space and landfills.
Pennsylvania, Ohio, and New York are some of the,
they're using their landfills up faster than they can get new ones.
hard on them.
up here in Maryland, though, we're in a voluntary recycling stage right now.
my wife and I, we save our bottles,
we save our newspapers,
we save all our plastic, and all of our tin cans.
just like you say, we go to, a community area where they have it set up
we dump them off there.
it's vol ,
It's still voluntary,
you say it is all voluntary.
Do they,
though we're supposed to have something by nineteen ninety three, though
Will it be mandatory?
where some aspects will be mandatory.
Is it all,
is there any place at all where you do get cash for this stuff
is it all,
Mostly just the cans.
most of the time, like I said, a sort of fund raiser things that,
the schools do, or that the Boy Scouts do, or whatever.
That's true.
Cans are the only thing I think you really get money for.
they do have places around here where you can get money for your newspapers,
and stuff like that.
I think a lot of people, like I said, are more concerned,
with, right now, the aspects of saving the earth .
I think that's mostly,
even before,
as soon as the community said, We're going to put up bins for recycling, we automatically started,
doing it.
It was,
it's one of those things,
just going and taking the time to go and read the signs and the brochures on what they accept and how it should be,
I tell you, it's kind of funny now at T I, I don't,
do you work for T I?
at T I they're doing recycling.
for a long time they didn't do this,
now recycling cans and paper.
We have separate bins
separate wastebaskets in our offices
for paper.
it's tremendous how much money they have saved and even saving all these trees
it's really,
I can't believe that
Because they've got it all posted all over the place how much,
well they're doing.
they're saving and how w ,
We do,
I work in a, speech interface lab,
at a college.
we do basically the same thing.
The state of Maryland has all the colleges and universities, and some of the large organizations, if they would definitely recycle their office paper.
the same thing, college in Maryland is recycling office paper.
in the giant bins around,
it's surprising how much
you never realize, because that janitor comes around and empties your garbage,
can every night.
You don't notice until,
you don't think about it.
you start leaving,
they don't pick up your recycling until it's full
you just can't believe how much paper that you,
I know .
Reams of paper come,
Yep .
out of an office every day . (( That )) ,
you think about,
(( took us )) to recycle.
the waste, even.
cost wise and
and, saving trees and stuff like that.
it's just amazing,
I think,
the difference.
Hopefully, if,
I guess a lot of the large organizations, probably T I, did they advertise on television how successful they are?
N ,
(( )) .
I haven't seen,
that doesn't mean that they don't.
I don't watch much T V,
I haven't really seen anything advertise publicly.
And like I said, they do a lot of internal,
advertising on that kind of stuff.
I haven't seen anything.
I don't see a lot of T I advertisements on T V anyway.
I think they advertise more, other places where they're not located.
That would probably,
be true.
I don't see a lot of advertisements for T I.
I know that some of the large industries here will advertise on television,
they'll come up and say,
they'll show you recycling.
here, those of us that (( Dumavra )) Power, which is our power company,
we now recycle forty five percent of our solid waste,
Right .
we do this for the community,
they put those on.
think, we're probably reaching a successful stage just with voluntary,
I think.
even, in the kid's schools,
they do things to try and recycle.
I know my kids, if they see litter on the ground they pick it up and say, look at that. Somebody is not saving the earth,
the kids, they really try to educate all ages,
it's good to start the kids real young on,
I think so, too.
stuff like that.
Because, when I was a kid, they never did stuff like that.
it's like nobody was concerned about it.
We weren't,
it's like,
That's true.
it's like all of a sudden when there's noticeable things, saying,
we're ruining the earth,
now everybody is doing something about, which is good.
how come we weren't doing this, twenty years ago ,
think really probably what hit peoples, I know that here New Englands area and also Pennsylvania, Ohio, and New York, all of a sudden we're out of landfill.
they're saying, We estimate this landfill be ov , will be full in two years unless we cut back.
even then, we're really running out of space.
I think that, that became,
that all of a sudden really hit home that there's no longer landfill space,
in some of the more crowded states.
This is,
other state,
I'm sure Texas probably still has some landfill space.
They're not going to voluntarily say, ship your garbage here.
Right .
That's true.
realistically, we have to start recycling in geographic areas.
It's really,
I think,
that really surprises me because of the cost savings.
this is such a tremendous,
amount of cost savings.
I can't understand why nobody saw that before.
even the aspects of not saving the earth ,
E I,
mean, it's,
so cost,
in some ways, I guess, doesn't become really cost saving until you have an industry around it, Because,
(( Bro , )) .
I know that, in,
Pennsylvania, they require them to, put their newspaper for recycling.
the de inking process that
to take the ink out of the newspaper so it can be reused
is very expensive,
also, produces
liquid waste that they don't know what to do with yet.
I see,
even some aspects of recycling
Is not
they still have cost,
real cost efficient.
cost efficient, yet.
understand that though.
others, like tin cans and plastics,
really, efficient,
they melt on quickly just because of the,
and glass.
heating and things, (( getting )) glass.
i ,
it really is surprising that people haven't noticed it before.
That's true.
noticed that a lot of gas stations are telling you to recycle your oil.
that kind of surprises me .
because once oil gets so, thick and yucky, you'd wonder how they could, clean that up,
enough to use it again,
they can.
I don't know how cost efficient that would be, I guess,
know either.
I know that though, all those petroleum products though are so terrible for the water table.
they really pollute quickly
(( )) , I was reading some place the brake fluid normally comes in just small little pint containers.
That one pint of brake fluid can contaminate so many gallons of water,
like hundreds of gallons of water.
it's one of those things that they really,
you wonder, with all these oil spills.
terrible that is .
I know .
how terrible that is.
keep our eyes on all that, I guess.
I know I really,
I don't know,
I think that they really are doing a good thing now
I hope it keeps,
I'm sure we'll keep up.
I think it's really catching on.
think that,
I'm not sure if it,
I don't know,
I think it's a good idea to make it mandatory .
I do, too.
because we were asking some people that live in, North Dakota, are you saving your, are you recycling.
they said, we're not forced to do it yet,
I don't know,
I think that to do it they may not, D you,
It (( d , )) ,
I don't know,
I think a lot of people still will,
if they're forced to do it it becomes sort of a habit.
I know that it's really funny.
My parents are forced to do it
I personally don't have any problem with, drug testing employees or potential employees, do you?
Basically, no.
I don't,
I really can't disagree with it.
the policy that T I has, I think is, very fair.
they first had a policy where they, would test new employees
since I've been with them the last four years, there's been in the last year, year and a half, they're doing random testing of all employees.
I think that's really the only fair way to do it.
I really think it ought to be s ,
Junkins all the way down.
it is,
what I understand it is Jerry Junkins all the way down.
as a matter of fact, I want to think they took the top managers first,
isn't that a fact?
I've been retired from T I about a year,
the program, was still fairly new.
I guess it had been going on, maybe almost a year,
before I retired,
I was not, ever called upon to do a drug test.
I certainly wouldn't object to it,
I think random is probably, the only really fair way to do it.
I like it because,
I grew up in the sixties,
I graduated high school in sixty eight
I know my friends who were druggies and,
friends who weren't
a real problem,
causing us a lot of trouble and,
and a lot of problems.
I'm hoping that, a lot of other companies follow the same path.
I don't think they'll have much choice, do you?
probably not.
Especially if they have anything do with, government contracts, or anything.
As matter of fact, I want to believe that the, defense department more or less mandated that people, who work on defense contracts,
do some sort of, drug testing.
I think that's really what maybe prompted T I to do it.
I was in the, Defense Electronic Division when I retired.
I know real hot, hot item there.
maybe they, really got some nudging from, D O D to do this sort of thing.
I used to be in D S E G myself.
A P D as a matter of fact.
the atmosphere, then.
Very aware of it.
I'd, I really like the idea.
in fact, I would like to see, a lot more, people, adopt it,
like, school systems, and that kind of thing.
I agree.
to know that my child's being taught by a teacher who's not on drugs or,
That's right.
or, who might be at a point where they're trying to sell my kid drugs.
That's r ,
I d ,
I just can't disagree (( with you )) , with (( )) the basic premise.
It's to m ,
as far as I know, it's, seems to be a fairly accurate program, as far as, the testing goes.
I like the idea that they have a, system where they allow you to, be retested if for,
That's right.
some reason there may have been a problem.
That's right.
or something did show up.
offer you, help if you need help.
I do too.
rather than just,
Put you out on the street.
put you out on the street and let you fend for yourself.
That's right.
That's not going to help anybody get over the problem.
ab ,
I believe it is a medical problem.
That's right.
of course I also think smoking is the most addictive thing in the world, too .
Not to mention alcohol.
there's a lot of things out there
things that,
I'm just glad that they, decided not to, tax drugs, otherwise they'd be legal,
they'd be getting tax money off it the same way,
That's right .
they are the alcohol and tobacco .
That's right ,
a real problem,
I'm sure.
I'm sure.
I have friends that work in other companies that are just now adopting the policy,
moved to a T I facility that, had never had, random drug sampling before,
because they were outside of the military sector.
It was, an industrial company, that T I purchased,
the people here, a lot of them are real opposed to it.
they were really opposed to it,
there was a few of them that obviously were doing drugs,
that's why they were opposed to it.
(( That's )) right.
it resulted a few people leaving,
because they just flat out weren't going to put up with the policy.
they had a life style
they weren't going to change it.
I know a lot of people who, when it first be ,
at least began, was in the talking sta ,
everybody knew it was coming,
it just a matter of time, everybody was screaming, invasion of privacy and all this stuff.
a lot of people, I think, after they thought about it for awhile, weighed the pros and cons, decided, it's really not a bad idea unless you're doing drugs, of course.
you should have no objection to it,
it's like, going down to get your license and checking your eyes.
That's right.
why do I need my eyes checked,
we want to make sure you can see .
That's right,
You know it's why are we doing this?
so you don't kill people on the road.
That's right.
Or yourself
it's a ba ,
it's the basic premise with,
drug testing.
That's right.
Especially some of the jobs,
luckily I've always been in the engineering sector,
it's very little that anyone could do in the engineering sector as far as, hurting someone,
it's hard to imagine somebody misusing a computer and somebody dying from it,
That's true.
in the manufacturing sectors and over in semiconductor,
and down in some of those labs and stuff,
assembly people.
if I'd want somebody down there that I'm working with side by side, that could kill me,
That's right.
by doing something incorrectly because they were not exactly all there because they were on drugs.
That's r ,
lot of sectors where I think that would, would help out,
I think in the long run, we all benefit.
if you have,
if you're not working with someone on drugs, then you're going to have less accidents,
you have less accidents
you spend less money on medical.
you spend less money on medical, then the company's more profitable.
The company's more profitable,
(( right )) .
then maybe they can pay you more.
If they can pay you more, you can buy more,
it goes around,
to everywhere.
up and down.
all over.
Sure does.
affects a lot of people.
It certainly does
just hope that, more and more companies, get on the ball,
and start it up.
I think they probably will.
I'm sure it's a very expensive program to administer.
I'm not sure every small company could do it.
a lot of companies coming down in price,
I think that the insurance companies are starting to give, benefits.
medical costs if, they,
it's got to help them too.
I think everybody benefit from the program.
I do too,
that's right.
I think a lot more insurance companies get on the bandwagon and say,
if you impose,
mandatory drug testing, we'll reduce your insurance costs by,
twenty per cent.
of course, the company's not going to reduce the employee's cost of insurance twenty per cent, they're going to reduce their own.
it'll save in some areas,
that'll cover it.
maybe some insurance companies might start offering it part of the package.
That's right.
That certainly could happen.
That's a very very competitive business.
I think all around going to help out a lot.
I do too.
I just really can't disagree with you.
it's nice to talk to you.
It was great talking with you.
you take care.
You do the same.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
the topic is vacations?
topic, .
I think so.
I enjoy them.
Where did you go on your last vacation?
the last was back down to Lubbock to visit parents.
It was,
The last one was back down to Lubbock, Texas,
to visit family.
that's not the tradition for us.
What's your state type,
where do you like to go?
we enjoyed Yellow Stone real well last year.
What kind of, vacation spots are there in Colorado?
Rocky Mountain National Park.
just like any of the other national parks.
there's camping and fishing and hiking and wildlife watching
I think my parents took me there when I was real young.
We went to Colorado Springs and, Rocky Mountain National Park.
It was real pretty.
Got to see Pike's Peak.
we usually try and drive up there, once every year or two.
You drive by yourself up there?
To the top the of the peak,
that's tough.
think I could do that .
it's not bad at all.
a beautiful drive.
I admit up there, the altitude is kind of interesting,
you get a little lightheaded and giddy,
it's fun. take along a picnic lunch
Sure is pretty up there.
we love it.
You have mountains all around you?
they're only of us.
Here in the Springs,
it's right there at the very foot of the Rockies.
once a week we drive up into the mountains, once a week, once every other week.
that's neat.
I'm jealous .
There's hills in Texas.
I enjoy hills, in Texas too.
I've been in Sherman.
Have you ever been out of the United States for, vacation?
I haven't,
Or business?
once to Mexico City,
just a little day thing on business.
I went to, the Bahamas last year, on a cruise for my honeymoon.
that's nice.
It was really neat,
I had never been Texas or out of Indiana much, out of the United States.
I'm from Indiana
Did you enjoy it?
Did you enjoy it?
it was great.
It was really pretty down there.
got to eat some different kinds of foods and meet people from a different culture
really did.
in fact, one, family that sat at our table every meal was from London,
they had never been to the United States,
they were really enjoying it
they were telling us about all their trips.
They had been to Disneyland,
it was neat to meet different people.
the place gone on vacation that I think I enjoyed the most,
was Seattle.
I've heard it's really pretty up there.
was, two years ago,
we went during the drought.
I'm sorry, three years ago.
It had been dry for a whole week.
It didn't rain for a whole week.
, that would have been nice.
That would have been best time to go.
somehow we picked the right time and, walked down on the wharf,
I think we ate seafood every meal for, not quite every meal, but most meals for a week.
it was wonderful.
the Pacific Science Museum, the little girl really enjoyed.
It's very interesting.
Pacific Science?
went to the Seattle Aquarium.
it's ocean, and down there on the wharf by the piers and all,
you walk down in a dome, a glass dome,
the bay is circulating over your head,
you can watch the fish swim by and sharks
there's walrus and sea lion and porpoises, it's,
it's amazing.
That's the vacation you recommend,
Without a doubt.
Seattle is beautiful,
the mountains,
I've heard it is.
the mountains to the east of Seattle,
are just incredible.
I rode a ferry for the first time in my life.
up there, you go from the mainland to a whole bunch of islands around there by ferry,
Instead of by bridge.
you drive your car on.
You park your car,
you set your brake.
You walk upstairs
you have a beer,
or coffee, or whatever, depending on the time of day.
It's amazing.
your car is on a ferry?
it goes across with you?
That's really neat.
there are people, literally that everyday, take the ferry, and drive,
To work?
on to it,
live on an island shore from Seattle.
That's really wild.
everyday they drive on the ferry.
They go upstairs and have their morning coffee.
Take, for the twenty to, hour and ten minutes that it takes to get across and, depending on where it is.
Hour and ten minutes?
in some places,
in some areas, depends on how far they are commuting.
That's really interesting.
a West Texan.
Out there in the land of no water.
to think that people live on the water daily, is kind of odd to me.
a different life style than we are used to.
it is.
I've been wanting to go to the West Texas, and see different parts of Texas, because I haven't lived here very long,
I haven't really seen much.
what are some good things in Texas to go visit?
I liked Galveston real well,
one of the areas down there close to Galveston is,
I forget the name of the island,
it's a bird sanctuary,
with all kinds of wild birds. Whooping and sand hill cranes, and ducks and pelicans
it's very pretty.
I like the Rio Grande Valley.
Real well.
Of course, you haven't lived until you have been to San Antone, to the,
to the Alamo.
Boardwalk and all that.
the river walk.
you need to go in the Spring when all the flowers are in bloom all up and down through there.
it's just simply beautiful.
I've heard it's really pretty.
of course, always when I lived in West Texas, had to annually go down to San Antone just,
go to, Lone Star,
make my annual pilgrimage to the Lone Star Brewery,
El Paso is kind of neat in kind of a funny way. *
go across the border and all.
the Davis Mountains are interesting,
out there in West Texas.
Down by Big Bend?
the right time of year to go there is in the middle of winter,
because, there's a beauty to the desert that appreciated when you are not burning up.
whenever you've been kind of cold where you are at. It's most enjoyable,
That's nice,
down there, in the lower Rio Grande Valley closer to where the Rio Grande empties into the Gulf, that's interesting.
I love the Texas Hill Country.
Austin is neat an occasional visit.
I've heard to go to Austin too.
A lot people say to go down there.
it's a fun few days.
What's there to see in Austin?
U T is real pretty.
there's a lot of little limestone lakes and caverns around that area, Marble Falls and all.
That's real pretty.
I would say definitely go see that part
I'd say go to, Midland once, just for the heck of it.
I don't know why,
find out when they are holding the petroleum fair,
currently, I'm not doing a whole lot of exercise in any type of program.
I'm mainly do a lot of walking.
I have a son that's a little bit overweight
the best thing we found to do with him is to walk around.
my wife and I kind of take turns.
At one time I had a fairly regular exercise program.
in the last couple of months I've changed to a new residence and everything has gotten kind of turned a little upside down.
All this space that normally would be dedicated towards the,
exercise area, is covered in boxes.
what did you do when you did exercise regularly?
I had, a little routine that I did for warm ups.
I did some very mild, light weight lifting.
I'm not trying to make big bulging muscles,
just trying to try and stay as firm as I can stay in my old age .
. right now, I try when it's nice out,
it's been raining a lot this spring,
I try to,
I have a bicycle
I like to cycle a lot.
my husband and I, we have entered a few rallies, that's pretty popular in Texas,
I don't know,
if it's up north,
every weekend a small town will sponsor a rally
thousands of people come with their bikes and ride over hilly terrain for thirty or forty miles, which that's a lot of fun.
we try to ride during the week to try and stay in shape for that.
T I, where I work has, a fitness center
a lot of time after work or maybe on the weekends, we'd go over there and lift weights and do the tread mill,
they have stair masters and all kinds of new machine, that are fun to ride and workout on.
I try to,
I'm trying to stay in shape on a regular basis.
I used to, get into it and get out of it based on my schedule,
I'm trying to stay in shape on a regular basis now,
it's a big commitment.
We don't have any kids yet
that's a of it.
That's a plus.
I have a total of five children.
I have three left living at home.
they do take up a big part of evening and weekend.
it's tough being a parent and doing all the things that you should do for yourself, too.
It's something they don't tell you about when you're growing up.
(( Yes, ))
when you become a parent most of your life is going to be dedicated to your children.
Huh .
That's why, staying in shape, stay in overall fitness, no smoking and all that.
it's hard to find, an actual exercise regimen that work, for you, because I know a lot of people that cycle, they take their kids behind them on the bikes
I don't know if that would work for me because I don't know I wouldn't want to pull a kid over hilly terrain.
it's really hard to find something that works, and, to find time to do it and stay committed to it three days a week or whatever.
I think maybe walking or running would probably work because it doesn't take much time and much money or whatever.
You have to,
what I found from my experience is you have to budget time for yourself.
you can use what ever rationale you want,
basically, the healthier you stay, the longer you'll live.
if I spend a little bit of time each day or a little bit of time every other day doing something for me to make me live longer, then I'll around a lot longer,
those people that I'm taking the ten minutes or twenty minutes away from now, get the enjoyment of me, years past where I would have been if I wouldn't have taken it.
If you kind of think of it as a rationale like that, it works out fine.
I've been learning a lot lately about,
I've been reading a book by Kenneth Cooper,
I don't know if you're familiar with him
he was the pioneer of aerobics and all of health
he's pretty much the innovator of the whole exercise thing.
he was talking about the three things that cause aging smoking are inactivity, *
what was the other one, I think was, obesity.
If you can control those three areas, then are you going to live longer, cause those are risk factors,
it's kind of a tip.
I've done a lot of study over the years
I found that probably one of the worst things that anybody can ingest is chlorinated water.
Really .
the research that I've done
I've actually been in the drinking watering business since eighty three.
it's amazing, that, prior to nineteen twenty there were very few heart attacks.
There were none prior to nineteen hundred.
in nineteen three they started experimenting with chlorinating the water. In nineteen thirteen most of the major cities,
after that we,
(( )) .
we started having the hearts attacks
Dr. Price wrote a book CORONARY, CHOLESTEROL, AND CHLORINE.
You can usually find it in a health food store.
I know they had it in health food stores in Plano,
I used live in Plano.
Dr. Price?
Dr. Price,
it's amazing,
he makes the,
it's a very small book
the guys very opinionated,
he makes a very good case against chlorine.
There were no heart attacks before we started using it
he points out that people in, England
even diets that quadrupled the amount of cholesterol that we're ingesting now,
they weren't dropping dead of heart attacks.
That's really interesting.
He did some experiments on chickens whose arteries are very similar to ours.
And, proved that ingestion of chlorine causes arteriosclerosis, which is the,
clogging of the arteries.
there's been a lot of reports since then.
This whole thing about,
first it was stress, then it went to cholesterol,
now they're saying what's cholesterol,
there's good cholesterol and there's bad cholesterol.
it's amazing what he points out in that book
in fact, everyone there was a toxicologist for the Environmental Protection Agency, who did work back in nineteen eighty six, who wrote a letter to Dr. Price in nineteen eighty seven. in this letter he praised Dr. Price for the work he did back in the sixties on this and said that E P A had been doing experiments on nonhuman primates and proving that ingestion of chlorine causes arteriosclerosis.
E P A never published that report.
what's the name of this book again?
CORONARY, CHOLESTEROL AND CHLORINE.
I'll have to remember that.
That will be very interesting.
My husband wants to go into medical school and be a neurosurgeon
he's really interested in the heart.
a, heart, too,
done a lot of research on how your heart reacts to exercise .
he made me laugh.
a lot of good information out there, about health.
myths they've been passing around, people are starting to realize aren't true.
I'm all for having a diet high in fiber and all that, because good for you,
to believe some of the things,
I don't think anybody should be going out there and eating a high fat diet,
to think that solely, alone is going to cause something like arteriosclerosis just hard to believe.
If you get a chance read Dr. Cooper's book on controlling cholesterol.
That's a real good,
he talks about that.
Talks about high risk factors and heart disease and all that.
I actually eat pretty much anything that I want.
I've had my cholesterol checked a few times
I've never been above, one hundred and fifty,
You have a good ratio of good to bad.
what they tell me,
everything is within five to ten percent and all that kind of thing .
they leave themselves wide open so they can't be sued.
I work at the T I site in Hunt Valley, Maryland.
we've had a few of the health fairs up here
I've always come out aces.
That's good.
I'm not really that big on watching what I eat,
I do eat, some health cookies that are high in fiber,
low in fat and all that kind of stuff.
I mean as far as really being concerned about ingesting too much chlorine, I'm not worried about it.
Okay, do you like to cook?
I love to cook as a matter of fact I'm making dinner right now .
what are you making?
making, some,
I have a little turkey left from a passover which was in April.
I had frozen it
I'm defrosting that and making some dressing and gravy and making corn and wheat (( )) stuff that you can buy at a store, which is like, rice pilaf,
with wheat kernel that,
do you cook,
are you single do you cook every night for yourself?
I'm married
my wife is a vegetarian,
this isn't for her,
this is for our friends that came over and helped.
helped me do some stuff
he and I,
she's having,
do cook, virtually,
I cook most of the time because I,
if you were having a dinner party what, would you cook a variety of things, vegetarian and nonvegetarian?
if we cook,
we have a dinner party we usually make it vegetarian just to make life easier.
we'll make some sort of pasta or something,
homemade pasta or lasagna or something.
that's something that's, really easy.
In fact I'm having a dinner party next Saturday
that is what I'm having is pasta.
good idea.
for Christmas I got a, pasta machine,
my friends are really anxious, to have the homemade noodles
Electric or,
it's the hand kind,
old fashion kind .
that, that's
bought one in Italy.
That's the best kind to have.
I kind of still having in put that not everything's being done for me.
that's real good.
that's what I'm going to be cooking,
I thought I would
(( )) , pasta salad first,
then just something for desert, bread and wine and cheese stuff like that.
That would be great.
Have you made pasta before?
that it's lot of fun
A lot of people think though that I've talked to about it think that it's, a lot of hard work
I said it's kind of easy.
It actually is, if you have a food processor,
I don't know if you have a food processor or not.
I do.
turns out that if, if you really want to be nice and easy about it you can make the dough in the food processor really simply.
with that it becomes really easy to make colorful pasta.
By throwing in some spinach or some tomato or something and mixing it up
a snap from there.
(( )) ,
I made,
(( )) I making yucky (( )) .
It's also,
people think it's real hard,
it just time consuming to get all of the little things right.
Otherwise it's real (( )) ,
it's good stuff.
What other kinds of, dinner parties do you serve?
I don't entertain that often,
when I do though have some friends that I always like to experiment on.
I see a recipe and think, I'd really like to try this, cause I'm single
I live by myself,
it's not necessarily something that I would cook just for myself.
you didn't want to cook.
I'll say, you guys are experimental I want say how this is going to turn out *
here we go
usually pretty good about it.
That's great.
I have this really good recipe for this, pork chop and apple casserole kind of thing
you put stuffing and put poached apples and everything
my girlfriend and her husband loved it,
in fact she passed it on to her parent
C and ,
so it's like it really made the rounds
I was quite impressed with myself if I should say so.
that's (( how these things sort )) of make it for one person as an experiment
I usually find it when I make up for the first time I usually doctor it just a,
little bit (( )) and little here and there
it works real well.
I'm the kind of cook that I don't normally measure things,
I just kind of throw them in
I don't to the point of, measuring down to the exact amount that they say.
That means you're a real cook.
is that what it means.
If you've ever watched the ones on television like, Jeff Schmidt, the super gourmet.
just, takes stuff he says, about an ounce of this (( or something )) .
It's real good.
middle eastern dinner quite a bit
we have people other that have never experienced it before and haven't had much middle eastern food. *
I haven't.
We make, cause we're my wife is Syrian.
her families always have this food she grew up in,
I've made some of it before as well,
we make, four or five middle eastern dishes that are just all real simple.
We put them out for people
that's always a real big kick for people never tried it before.
that's, that's a fun idea if you ever, want something different to try.
I would try that.
I've been wanting to take an, oriental cooking class
I just haven't gotten around to it yet.
do you have a wok though?
I stir fry things on occasion
I'd like to know more about, more elaborate things like guess.
I think it's God's gift to cooking.
Cause it's just quick,
it's easy,
the food just comes out,
if you do it right I think the food comes out very tasty not very mushy,
it doesn't taste like a million calories of oil
We in our wok.
we like to eat even when we eat out stuff we eat a lot of Chinese food,
or Japanese food or,
Korean (( )) ,
that seems to,
wok food seems to be our thing.
anything else you cook .
I just kind of, cook here cook there .
I don't have any one specialty
I'm always willing to try anything usually.
that's good,
that's always the way to do it.
I think (( it's, )) .
especially like baking and making deserts.
I've taken a cake decorating class
the Wilson course?
it was a private course,
(( I like it )) .
through a com ,
That's great,
I haven't (( )) the Wilson class.
it's neat it takes a long time,
I'm elected to always bring cakes into work .
Like for people's birthdays and that
it's like, you bake the cakes
I guess just because I don't have the expertise to just hurry up and do it,
like, professional would real slow
it's a little time consuming,
it's really worth your effort once you see how you do.
we have,
my brother can do it,
got a degree in business management
he learned do this (( )) .
Can you hold on one second?
Thank you.
Sorry about that.
That's okay .
Some one kept beeping in our calling waiting (( )) ,
that a lot,
he cooks a lot
he bakes a lot whenever he,
my wife and I got married the night before we had a party.
Or two nights before
a real big cake himself,
(( )) , New Years our friend made a baby.
Cake like a baby New York.
It was amazing
I never (( )) ,
could do anything with cakes
I get the mold it on, the frosting (( always )) melts
it's just horrible.
you learn helpful hints in the classes at least.
the instructor told us certain things about don't follow what's really necessarily on the box, if you're making just a cake from a box, do this cause, make it a variety.
you mean about the,
some different hints.
mix itself.
that helps.
Some different hints, kinds of frostings you can make,
I have a book an it,
all of the different, decorating tips an things like that.
most frostings are sort of butter cream to aren't they. *
kill me
I'm eating sugar,
they're good sugar.
I think (( that's )) part of the problem,
that's about it.
I guess so.
a pleasure chatting with you.
It was nice talking to you.
have a good time cooking for your dinner party next week.
Thank you.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
(( )) .
I've had time to think about it because, we've had,
i ,
i ,
there's been a great deal of difficulty in finding someone to talk to
was thinking about a couple things,
and whether they are serious.
Some things are serious
some aren't.
I guess the biggest thing that bothers me
not the biggest thing,
one of the things that bothers me is the credit information, situation,
find yourself almost compromised into giving if you want any of credit,
checks things of that nature.
don't know if that's an invasion of privacy, simply, I do feel it is
I don't know whether,
some of the questions they ask are legitimate
because they are the ones who are making the profit out of your ,
what's scary is, about two, three, four months ago edition of what is called the morning paper here, The DALLAS MORNING NEWS.
They showed a reporter copy editor how they went out
they just took, a fellow in John Q. Public in Dallas
all they had was,
let's see, something like his birth date, the street address,
they weren't even sure of the correct spelling of his last name,
it was, very scary to see what they found out.
they were able to find out what liens he still had against, two or three houses, through two divorces, children's names, locations,
it was really frightening.
then it's just the big brother concept of the fact,
that once you give your social security number there are people I guess actually collecting all this all the time
profiles are given.
I understand,
I read the other day that, these telemarketeers when someone talks to you on the phone
they need now is your telephone number, which I guess is involved in this controversy of whether they can reveal your telephone number or not.
I feel that is an invasion of privacy
I do too,
like is, in terms of
we just moved here from, Minneapolis
to get very nice townhouse that we're in,
you were required by the property management firm that was representing a private landlo ,
husband and wife, owners, who had never done this before.
They, asked us for again an astounding amount of information
what we really didn't have the same opportunity,
I guess that's when I also get upset that if you're going to do it then I want to do it too.
in terms of the credit,
I know, we're also going through adoption now,
in for an adoption,
after we gave our fingerprints to the F B I,
My God.
look at each other, you look at each other and say, , it's too late now.
a matter of anybody can get it any way and how if they really try,
have a particular subject that not everyone agrees with me,
go ahead.
I make my living by, flying airplanes for,
for a company.
airline pilot I have to take random drug testing.
it seems to me the public outcry was for that at the time,
finish certain flight on a random basis I have to,
have drug test
that's without probably cause,
a ,
(( )) it isn't,
in the end now, spent forty million dollars
they've found, I think, in pilots anyway, of something like, eighty six thousand tests there's only been positive,
one of them was a bad test,
Positive for anything,
I just started working, for an electronics firm down here,
I used to be a reporter.
now, I'm in corporate communications,
part of that was, as a new hire, that I had to take a drug test,
Drug test,
righ ,
I had never been asked that
I thought, I really didn't like it.
have very mixed feelings about it.
I don't disagree or agree with you.
that it's well
you're in that field,
I don't know,
we lived in, Minneapolis when the Northwest Airlines pilot in the Dakotas,
that hit the fan like,
obviously aware of that, .
I am.
I don't know there should be some happy medium in terms of,
if they're going to do random,
don't agree with random,
I guess I would look for a standard in consistency.
in terms of maybe at set intervals, so that everybody knows what's going on,
I don't see a problem with that.
I do think, I see some level of necessity, in something where people are transporting other people, only because of the things you've heard about.
The problem is
the reason I feel that way, even to a low degree is because it's the old story the minority make it bad for the, majority,
can understand the public's alarm to it,
I'm not alarmed.
I guess, having done this all my life, I knew that there wasn't a problem
has proved out that way,
now, try to get the damn thing repealed,
You can't,
I know, it's,
I guess I feel bad because,
not only that
in some of the instances you just cited where you have to give your fingerprints, what happens if you say no.
If you say no then you're excluded
doesn't seem the courts,
it's a matter,
that's, exactly what it is.
kind of screening in general is a matter of exclusion.
if we didn't give it we wouldn't go to Romania.
That's right.
you hate to say that,
that's the way it is.
It's my feeling also that although
don't know if it's that serious,
that was part of the question,
I do feel the courts held up a great deal our privacy, particularly look some of the, in some of the,
I notice in some of the sexual cases they've held up a great deal of privacy,
which I support of course,
it I guess with our fear with crime and maybe airline crashes and things like that, it does seem that slipped and that's eroded,
at least those in the market place their everyday life seemed to take that as a signal that, it's fair game,
t ,
have to answer these questions, of course.
I don't know,
feel there has been an erosion
I don't really know how serious it is, except I don't like it .
In terms of the privacy, yeah,
that in it,
also, I agree with that
terms of the question, in terms,
I worked in medical public relations for almost a decade,
that was pre AIDS and all the other, things,
that were probably there but just not , labeled
I have a real problem with medical professionals,
it goes back to the things like drug screening
if it's in any level even with the potential to endangerment,
I think this is much stronger than, pilots or, train engineers being screened,
the transmission of the AIDS virus,
i ,
i ,
that's a real ethical problem.
have the answer,
I mean I think of the young girl in Florida who,
was she from your part of the country?
was she from,
What was that?
The young girl that, contracted AIDS through her dentist, allegedly.
they proved it,
I don't know if it's the old story that we are killing ourselves in general, or what,
just take step now we feel there's a need to do that
the next thing you know then,
there's always the need go and inspect lockers of high school students,
tha ,
I guess the question is,
thing for me is, who sets the parameters or who has the control,
I guess so,
good luck to you,
you just moved to Texas
from Minneapolis.
I don't,
I don't hold out much hope for you.
I think they'll be a cultural shock.
I was based there a lot, several times in the service
I was absolutely flabbergasted at the,
at least in criminal law
ter ,
latitudes that the police had,
very seriously,
no ,
more than just seriously,
I'm more than likely going to be going to law school in the Fall.
Oh yeah.
if I figure out that's still what I really want to do
things I'm finding out are in terms of things privacy, the way the law is interpreted, presented,
it's no better than journalism .
except in journalism it's words,
this is very frightening in that,
Texas they do not require for instance for prospective adoptive parents,
whether it's domestic or international,
they're one of only five states that do not require a criminal investigation check.
Yet, if you're caught with,
let's just say, that somebody who's in ne ,
not us,
somebody who's need of carting, aluminum beer cans around,
they haven't touched them,
they haven't drank them,
they picked them up off the street
they want to take them to a recycling, resource
for money, or whatever.
been going through a lot of bad publicity here in the last three or four months again, because they've been arresting people like that.
I don't understand,
if they don't make a criminal check, why do you have to be fingerprinted.
in our case, one is at the state and the other one is at the federal level. with the I N,
because you have to deal with the, imi , immigration service.
I see,
the state doesn't require it.
unusual, isn't it.
it is,
the whole thing is,
no consistency.
in your,
in terms of you being a pilot and being tested randomly, I can't see why after a certain number of years or after a certain time frame they can't do it at an interval,
(( )) ,
the extension of that is, not,
the next thing you know, we'll just stop a random amount of motorists
if we really think that drugs are a problem we can randomly stop anybody on the street.
do that in Texas.
they do?
They don't do it for drugs,
what they do is they check to see if you've got, current insurance
they check to,
to see if you're permits are,
all sorts of scare tactics, I guess, to, to invade our privacy
I know
it's kind of,
what's the word I want,
I don't,
it's ju ,
to me it's just frightening,
the old,
I'm old enough now where George Orwell,
way past time .
I just going to say, NINETEEN EIGHTY FOUR,
it's here.
it's exactly true,
the computers, of course helps that.
The computer abilities store that information.
look at what we're talking now,
look how we're talking now,
you wonder ultimately what a network of stranger,
what kind of music did you all listen to? .
my goodness.
we think of classic rock that they, have on all the easy listening stations now
as our heart and soul.
it was,
that is a really good question because that was everything from the Rolling Stones to the Beatles.
we were there.
then you was, in the,
I am sorry,
I was,
I am going to make you sound like you're
I was,
eighty something.
I was in seventh grade when the Beatles came out.
I was
fourteen years old.
What was,
what was you doing during Woodstock?
I wanted to go.
I was in Chicago.
I guess I was close to eighteen or something.
it was like, I think, the summer between my, high school and college. Somewhere around in there.
I can't quite remember the year.
You would have had a ball.
kind of to have been there.
get it together to drive.
we had never driven outside of,
ten miles out of town at that time.
here we were all hep to go to Woodstock,
Don't you wish you had been able to, though?
I really do.
that would have been such a great memory.
It would have been incredible.
think of, all the, social changes that were going on around that time. And,
and the sixties as being so revolutionary in a lot of ways in terms of raising people's consciousness. Everything from,
I remember we had the first Earth Day back then,
we got out of school the university,
we celebrated Earth Day.
You went and planted a tree or something?
Planted trees and stuff,
we did not realize, the implications of all that then,
and a lot of the stuff that goes on
growing up with,
when I grew up, we did not have any causes.
To me it doesn't seem like we have got much,
you know what I mean?
you do.
y ,
no name to it.
It was everything that was started in the sixties.
had, you had to fight for racial equality.
I do remember demonstrations over busing.
busing themsel ,
It was just a continuum.
everything sort of had a seed in the sixties.
women's rights, things for women were totally different for you by that time.
By the time I was born, even now, women's rights,
we just,
You just assume.
we are totally equal now.
There is not really a lot to fight over.
I saw something on T V last night on TWENTY TWENTY.
men's, fathers or daddies,
wait a minute,
Daddies Are People Too.
It is about a lot of men, going through divorces.
The judge will usually, give custody to the mother ninety seven percent of the time. Because they go through the female.
we learned
from KRAMER VERSUS KRAMER, didn't we? .
. Something like that.
it does seem,
It seems unfair.
It really does.
men are coming into their own
now too.
They are,
I thought about that.
I thought now men, have to fight to be equal.
I think that is only right though,
one guy said the judge looked at him and said, Mister So and So," he says, "I have never seen, calves follow a bull.
They always follow the heifer."
give custody to the mama."
"does that mean you are going to shoot them if they break a leg and,
butcher them if they get fat?"
He said, "My kids are my cattle."
is the way most people feel, that women should get custody.
are you married
do you have children?
I am married
I have got two kids.
Two kids.
how does your husband respond to all the new,
social, changes?
My husband is not a conformist at all.
He is still back there in the seventies .
bless his heart, .
he is still wearing not bell bottoms
flared pants. he,
I do not like them
They are
to him,
going to be back in style any day now.
Any day now .
he is his own person.
he does stay with it as far as music and stuff goes,
he wears what clothes he wants to. Which we are both that way.
If something is out of style, I do not really care.
If I like it I am going to wear it.
my husband is not a conformist at all .
is the spirit of the sixties.
whether we are talking about the rain forests.
I tell
the situation you have right now
all of our generations is what to do with the children. Because both mother and father have to work now.
we are trying to keep away from that.
My husband works for the railroad.
We have got it real tight.
I have got a four month old baby,
I do not want to work.
I want to tend to her.
I want to raise my kids.
That's, that is your commitment.
You do not know what you are changing when you do something like that.
You do not understand the total commitment it takes to be a parent.
when he grew up, he grew up with his,
we both grew up with single mothers.
my mom had six kids.
she had to work.
I was raised by my sisters and stuff.
see the difference.
I know that it would have been better had Mom been able to stay home with us.
That one person
that you could always count on being there.
my husband was the same way.
we just,
I want to raise my kids.
I do not want a day care or an aunt or anybody else raising them.
I want to be there to make sure that,
they need guidance
they do need parental guidance
They definitely
twenty four
hours a day.
They definitely do.
Do you stay home with yours?
had some I would.
have not,
I had an unfortunate thing happen,
I am,
it is not going to happen that way.
friends are having babies right and left,
I get to see the different ways that they,
They raise them.
all raise them.
one gal, she started a business,
in her home.
hired an au pair, which is a college kid to come in and take care of her two boys while she works in the other end of the house.
the guy lives in with her,
it is a family sort of unit sort of thing
Okay, sweetie.
Let mommy talk.
I think that's neat.
that is a different way.
my other girlfriend just, tears her hair out and goes at it, twenty four hours a day, watching both kids all the time.
I think there is a point where you just have to get away.
it is good for the kid
it is good for you to develop, your interest so you do not stop growing
at the same time.
I know the family is really going through changes.
now, we are trying to go back to about the sixties, was staying at home.
(( Unit )) .
what do they call it, the nuclear family?
Do you have any,
do you have your mom or anybody around you that
helps you?
my family is Kentucky.
sisters is down here.
Her husband happened to get a job at T I .
They moved out here,
w ,
his family lives here
my husband was in the service when I met him.
been all over
Okay, Kyle .
Then I,
he got a sunburn
he is itching,
I am keep having to scratch his back.
I would love to get a business going out of my home.
Outside of, going,
that is,
I would rather work at home, if I could.
that is, the sort of the thing of the nineties is
is the trend.
working out of their own home.
They are bringing big businesses into their home.
Bringing their computers home
and working from there.
I think, the more we try to, shape that, the more input we,
have into what that whole system is going to look like. Because our choice now too.
That is,
I think,
that is our cause.
I think one that would be,
it is,
kids could see their parents, how hard they work,
they would understand more.
When, we first moved down here, I was working.
I was working a twelve hour shift,
it was three and four days a week.
my little boy he went wild. he had been used to me
Being there all
being there
the time.
all the time,
he is just now,
when I got pregnant, I went ahead and quit work and decided just to stay at home
it was costing too much at home, I was bringing in.
the economic situation on the whole thing.
it is,
we do have things that we are concerned about here.
This generation,
I don't know.
Social change is always going to go on,
I think we have taken a big leap in the last, twenty, thirty years.
nothing is the same.
it seems like it is totally different.
Of course, I do not have much to compare it to.
To me,
our causes do not seem as important as you all's were.
Do you know what I mean?
we passed them on to you,
I said, "We passed
We passed them on to us.
on to you."
it takes a lot of hard work.
It takes writing letters to Congressmen and,
and, just being very, very politically astute about how to shape and mold the future.
did we make the right choices?
We do not know,
we will never know.
think we made a wrong choice when I look at the children of today.
I think we made some big wrong choices.
I think business got in the way.
I think the greed of the eighties got,
what's your opinion about capital punishment?
Cathy, I think that, capital punishment certainly has a place in our society, maybe from the sense that there are some things that we just can't afford to have repeated, even in the remote chance of repetition.
I think I would agree with you on that, too.
can't see any point in keeping someone who's obviously beyond any kind of rehabilitation, paying for them to live in prison for years and years and years when you could probably just eliminate the problem.
Maybe spend the money on someone who could possibly be helped.
That might be true,
what I don't know, is where do we draw the line.
do we say that every one who commits murder in the first degree is liable for capital punishment if that's what the jury decides is an appropriate punishment for their crime,
do we extend it beyond that?
beyond murder or just beyond first degree murder?
I have nine year old daughter,
there are some crimes that could be committed against her that are not even considered capital crimes, I would consider basis for murder.
that really gets into a sticky issue.
I could see that too.
I think there's probably things I could think of short of murder that would probably deserve to be killed for.
who's going to decide which is how bad,
something that to you is really bad might not be quite so bad to me,
it's gets into a pretty sticky issue.
it does.
A lot of that has to do with the cultures that we grew up in and what's termed acceptable and, to what's allowable and where are we.
if we in a different country, then murder is not so bad.
over here, where we're promised the civil liberties of pursuit of happiness, then taking that away is heinous act.
in some eyes.
I think some people give up that .
I think some of what we consider rights are really more privileges what most people think of them as.
I don't know what, Texas's criteria for capital punishment is,
do you know?
Are there some set guidelines, like only under these circumstances?
I don't know.
I believe it's, at the discretion of the judge or jury.
I used to live in Virginia,
I know when they first reinstated capital punishment it was only, if someone killed a police officer or someone committed rape and then murder.
Those were the only two circumstances where you could give someone the death penalty, which I think is a little too limited.
I tend to agree with you there.
my belief any crime that's freely committed,
freedom of choice
these people had a choice of committing this crime, that involves the taking of another's life or the altering of someone's life
such as rape, deserves punishment by death.
then I'm also told that I'm a pretty harsh person.
in general terms I'm not so harsh,
then whenever I hear of a specific case, where someone did something, then it's like, put it to them .
I think I probably tend to be a little bit harsh, too, as far as that goes.
I think you're right,
that person voluntarily gives up when they decide to commit that crime,
they voluntarily give up their right to continue on with their happy life,
just beca ,
they ruin someone else's life.
All right,
I can see a difference between a person who goes out to rob a store for food
than a person who commits a crime either for the thrill of committing the crime or of power that they get from it, or to illegal activity.
that second group of people falls into the group that I say give up their rights,
first guy, I just assumed it was a guy, the first person,
that went out to rob a store for food, that to me a different set of circumstances, where deserves help instead of, loss of life.
he didn't go out with the intent of hurting someone else.
That's right
with the,
Or with no regard for someone else's well being.
What about, teenagers that get involved in a gang and do a drive by shooting or something like that. fifteen, sixteen year old.
Would you consider, capital punishment for them?
I think I would probably lower the age to about fourteen.
There's some,
certainly don't know myself,
somebody needs to do a study that says at what age true and complete logical thought to include consideration long term consequences
what age they're accountable,
for their actions.
I have an eighteen year old,
he's nineteen now,
I don't think that I saw it in him until maybe last year,
I have an eleven year old and a nine year old,
I it in them yet,
not sure where it begins.
I know that they are lowering the age of, whatever is considered a minor.
I think have been tried as adults who were a lot younger than they used to be,
I think I read about a boy that was nine or ten, that got mad at some playmates and went in and got a gun and just opened fire on them,
they were trying to charge him as a,
First how much television watching do you do?
I do a little bit more than I think usual people do because I am here alone during the day,
I like it just for the noise .
That's right,
do you actually watch it,
pay attention to it
is it more of a company?
it just depends on what it is.
I have my favorite things that I do,
some fun thing to do sometime.
what about you?
I work full time
when I am not working I am running
I do not watch a lot of television
I am very selective in what I watch.
If there's something that I absolutely want to watch I will turn it on and watch it and then turn it off.
I probably watch television four hours a week, max.
that's great,
I do not find something that I really want or really want to watch, then I just do not turn it on.
I would rather listen to music.
Part of it is that, I think we need to be very selective about the kinds of things that come to us on a subliminal basis
I think that if we are doing other things and these programs come in, sometimes they influence us
we do not know where that influence came from.
true, too.
I think you have to have the will and the,
I think it,
be susceptible to stuff.
Of course, I,
it has to be reinforced at another level too.
what would you watch, if you had, this week to watch?
Do you like specials?
last night, for example, I really would have liked to have watched UNSOLVED MYSTERIES.
Those are fascinating to me.
If I have the opportunity, I watch it.
Unfortunately, I was with someone else who was flipping channels.
Oh .
I hate that.
I do not care a whole lot for some of the contemporary humor.
In our comedy programs, although,
nobody can appreciate comedy any more than I can,
I would prefer to find, a good comedian on one of the educational channels or one of the older comedians.
we have cable also,
sometimes you can, get the H B O specials,
That's right,
sometimes those are really,
some of those are fine programs.
pretty hysterical.
like to watch comedy,
that's something.
enjoy comedy.
I am not,
real up to date on what's going on now,
guess I have my old favorites,
I am,
hooked on,
Bob Newhart is still on.
I watch him.
I enjoy that,
something on that level,
also enjoy,
I do not know,
Sunday mornings, it's Channel Thirteen,
I watch a lot,
of Thirteen, THE MCLAUGHLIN GROUP,
That's right.
I just laugh,
I think that's so hysterical,
these guys.
It's just so much fun.
a lot of fun,
watching that.
I do not agree with a whole lot of the stuff the, they say,
it's fun.
I like to be entertained,
I really do .
I watch it for entertainment,
I also watch it for, cultural impact.
I do a lot of channel thirteen, channel three, some of the educational channels,
I watch for special programs that have play, a special concert,
I recently watched a tribute to three of the finest opera stars.
that was fabulous,
it was fabulous.
I was just absolutely,
you just held you breath,
in some of those.
(( ))
I was just,
it makes chills all,
I know.
over you.
may or may not even look at the T V guide,
if I have time I may flip through and say this looks good if I finish this task I can watch that in an hour.
if the hour comes and I do not get a chance to watch it, so what.
there's certain thin ,
I have got, my T V in the kitchen here
if there's something like cooking shows.
I love to watch cooking shows.
really do.
I do too,
it makes me want to cook,
I know ,
I eat,
I get fat,
I just let other people watch
then I eat what they cook .
there's some,
in fact, one of the water color shows, I know, has inspired me to take water color lessons,
I think that's,
things like that, you get,
I took a lot of my,
a whole lot of exposure.
college courses,
I took some of my,
(( ))
college courses on television,
it's very successful for some of,
those things,
I think I really got stung very badly about having influence in your life,
at least I saw a very bad example of having television influence your life,
my husband had an aunt who was addicted to soaps,
I want you to know that became the most suspicious, cantankerous, contrary old woman ever walked.
She got you a (( )) .
I do not know who she thought she was,
she just got to the point where almost hear those soaps being echoed in her voice,
and that attitude being demonstrated.
for her to miss a soap, it was a big withdrawal.
she was probably depressed to begin with.
I do not know.
You know what I mean?
she was grumpy to begin with.
grumpy to begin with.
There's no doubt about that,
you could clearly see those influences,
in my youngsters,
I know that one day, my youngsters were watching THE THREE STOOGES,
I always thought that was just casual slap stick,
I hate that show .
when one tries to lift the other one up with a pipe wrench, I decided that was not funny,
any more.
I really,
I really feel very strong about the BART SIMPSON SHOW.
I think that is,
the kids watch that
that's absolutely the mouthiest kid I ever saw.
do not like it.
Is not that amazing.
How old are your kids?
Mine are grown,
I have grandchildren.
And, young children around,
for a four year old to think Bart Simpson is a hero is tragic .
I had forgotten about that,
it's just my husband and I
C and,
so I do not have that influence,
of the kids shows and all that,
I don't know.
I was very careful even when my kids were,
kids were at home.
when they were young I really did, watch what they watched.
I was cau ,
I sat down with them
I watched it,
if I did not like it, I changed the channel for them.
distracted them, changed their interest.
Because I just could not tolerate that kind of influence on the kiddos.
I just wou ,
we get it at school, too,
you might as well not,
reinforce it ,
That's right,
that's right.
mouthy enough anyway.
remember going to sch ,
my parents were a lot like, too
of course,
we did not have any of the variety,
all the watch RAWHIDE and all those shows.
my parents never let me watch anything like that.
I could watch YOGI BEAR,
what kind of culture was that ?
I remember going to school the next day
everybody would be asking, did you see that,
did you see how he did that
did you see,
I could never participate.
it always made me feel a little bit, a loner
I can,
understand how that would happen.
then my parents,
I think then you have to replace it with other things.
I did,
I ran my kids to death .
I said, I think that's enough television for awhile,
maybe we need to go outside,
we need to go out and play and enjoy some company.
I would go out with them,
there's the problem, parents do not do that.
That's true.
say, you go outside and play,
you go rent a video up at,
I said,
the store and come home and sit down and watch it.
we went on field trips
we did other things.
I think that was,
something people do not do,
here we are talking on that subject,
an interesting concept
I have got to stick in my (( )) ,
Of course,
work with kids (( ))
I guess, the suggestion is that we maybe talk about a menu for a dinner party, if we wanted to do something like that or,
share recipes or something,
Are you one who gives dinner parties very often?
nor am I.
I avoid them with all ,
They are a lot of work,
that is for sure.
they are,
I do them,
they are a lot of work.
I usually have them when there is a special event in our lives
I make a big deal out of it for them.
I think I am most, happiest with my most,
familiar foods that I know are successful.
my own pies and pie crust
I can make my pies from scratch,
I do not need a recipe to follow.
that's great.
You sound like my mother who has been,
I bake pies too,
my mother was always the famous pie baker in the family
she has technique,
I guess after many years of doing it, you just,
you just know from heart.
kind of do it second nature.
I had one of the ladies at church that tasted my coconut cream pie
she said make me one,
I made her one.
gave me back the plate, she said "I did not share this with anybody".
I thought that was a big pie.
She enjoyed it, .
Yes .
there is a woman in our choir, who is nearly famous for her apple pies,
we had an auction one time at the church
one of her pies was auctioned for fifty dollars .
My word,
she must have a great pie recipe then.
I think have had it once
it has been a few years ago,
I do recall that it was quite good,
that is her specialty,
I like to bake, also,
I do not bake so much now that my children are grown,
I do enjoy baking
I guess I always liked making, cookies and bars and things like that,
that was more my specialty,
I suppose.
they seem to last longer than pies around here
pies would go practically,
in a day's time .
That's right,
they are meant for that evening's,
it has got to be gone or daddy gets into leftovers.
Right .
Puts about two more inches on his waistline
he is chastising,
(( )) ,
himself afterward .
it is interesting that,
yesterday, I had lunch with a friend
she was telling me that she had a dinner party over the weekend,
for friends of hers.
one of her acquaintances, one of her old friends, I guess, had been in town
they invited two other couples over
there were seven of them that,
I said what did you have"
she said what she had, just Mexican food,
she had, guacamole
I cannot remember all she had.
she also had made, flan, which is actually Spanish, I think.
Have you ever made that or had it?
I have not,
I had, used to work with a gentleman who was from Cuba, who would make it,
it's just a wonderful dessert.
It's like, an egg custard in a caramelized sugar,
with on top of it.
not very difficult to make,
it's very, very high in cholesterol, I am sure with all the eggs that are in it.
she said that she and her husband had, traveled in Spain a couple years ago.
flan is almost, a basic with every meal that you get,
Like apple pie in America,
It's just very customary to get flan.
if you ever run into that you will sort,
of be aware of what that is all about.
I would never have thought of making that as part of Mexican dinner,
sopapillas, I guess, would be another kind of a dessert, if you decided to do something like that.
flan is something you can,
make ahead and ready
I would, have been thinking I would like to have a dinner party sometime soon,
I tell you it,
th ,
(( my ))
it's one of those things where it does require some real, planning
(( )) huh.
you don't just make the dinner,
you have the house to clean and, the whole business that goes with it.
when I have a dinner party that is my motivation for getting the,
house clean .
Probably a good way to do it.
the house needs cleaning, I guess I had better have a dinner party .
we are catering a wedding, in August
this lady that is,
it at,
it's at her house,
she is not a good housekeeper.
she has got to hire this crew,
of four women to come in two weeks prior to the wedding and get it ready.
Good heavens .
must have found some jewels,
because they start in the corner and work out.
That is such a nice thing,
we have,
my husband and I have been married twenty six years,
until last year I had never had another person clean my house,
C and,
then I got so involved and so busy, I said "this is one luxury I am going to let myself have every now and then".
I had a woman come in, once a month,
it was (( not )) just very often,
for me it was wonderful .
that is nice, to have that,
that's a,
luxury, today.
it is,
it you time to do other things, like have a dinner party, I guess.
That's right,
it is just a real gift of time as far as I am concerned,
have a pie crust recipe is unique,
that has vinegar and egg in it,
I have heard about that.
Have you?
I have never tried it.
(( )) .
I should say I have heard of one that has vinegar in it,
I do not know that it has egg in it.
Egg and sugar.
Do you have it right on the top of you head? .
I think it would be too hazy, because, the,
You do not have it,
(( I would )) ,
the liquid is like,
a half cup of water and then your egg and then your tablespoon of vinegar,
you mix that together
five pie crusts at once.
quite large,
it's quite a volume of,
I think it's four cups of floor,
a tablespoon of salt and a tablespoon of sugar
you combine your dry ingredients
you, put in your liquid.
what is it about the, the vinegar that, makes,
It just,
the crust better.
it just makes it very pliable and,
and very flaky,
you can really treat it rough
you are still going to have a flaky pie crust.
the real secret.
it's not mine,
it was from one of the magazines, probably, twenty years ago
it said you can throw this on the floor and step on it
it will still be flaky.
I thought, quite a statement for them to make.
th ,
it makes me think of years ago, when I was visiting my mother in law in, Michigan,
she lived very near an apple orchard
we just had,
we could take as many apples as we wanted from it.
Accor ,
according to the owners,
I decided to bake about four pies ahead,
and freeze them,
talk about working with big amounts of pie crust, and having it be tough.
Those were the toughest
I have ever, ever made.
It was terrible.
could have used that recipe,
it sounds like.
I am from Michigan.
Where about?
we lived in Plymouth for four years,
that's real close.
In fact, were there from, seventy three to seventy seven
worked for weekly newspaper there, the,
how neat.
the Plymouth, what was it called, CRIER.
my husband is from the upper peninsula,
he was born and,
raised up there.
That is where my mother in law still lives,
Are you originally from Michigan
Born in Detroit.
I will be darn.
what movie have you seen?
I think the last one that we actually went to go see,
there's two.
I took my kids to see A HUNDRED AND ONE DALMATIANS
of course they wanted to see it.
They had the Disney
they thought that was wonderful
they loved the dogs,
C and
It's one of my
favorite even,
we went with some friends of ours,
I was a little worried about my son.
He's about two and a half
he's going through a stage right now where he's kind of afraid of dogs barking if he can
hear them and can't see them
he did real good through the whole movie except the part where the dogs are sending the message, that the puppies are missing
it shows the town,
you can hear all the barking,
A whole lot,
can't see the dogs .
kind of dark,
that kind of bothered him
after that he did fine.
is he young?
he'll be three in January.
that makes sense.
my kids' very favorite, and yours may be too young for it, was HOME ALONE.
I loved that movie.
we do, too,
they just want to rent that one.
That is their very favorite.
They think they're so cute.
Probably gives them ideas of what they want to do,
right .
I guess so,
I guess so,
I guess so.
We're not real big movie goers ourselves,
we did try to go see about a month ago that, DEAD AGAIN
that black and white one,
I was not real impressed with it.
In fact we kept sitting there all through the theater going now did that mean,
run that back,
we couldn't run it back
Wasn't that good.
just kept trying to figure it out until finally toward the end,
we thought we were being very quiet,
this man turned around and said, Could you all please save that for later.
I'm sorry .
We're just not real big movie goers.
I like to watch the movies,
it's gotten so expensive that we
wait until they come out on video
that's us too
we rent them
that's us too.
now we did go see HOME ALONE at the dollar movie
that was just hilarious,
I died.
I thought that was cute, too.
did also,
we went to see WHAT ABOUT BOB one night, which is a funny, funny movie
my husband's name is Bob
he wants to see that
it's a funny movie.
he wanted to see that.
I thought the funny part in HOME ALONE that's good for kids, is kind of coming up with how they can deal with problems on their own without panicking
That's true.
I thought they could learn a lot of lessons from that.
The little guy is so cute,
he's terribly rich by now.
I hope he stays cute
me too .
not spoiled,
you get to where
that's right.
the money goes to their heads or
That's right.
goes to something,
they grow up too fast,
there's a lot I want to see,
what I try to do when they come out is just make a list of them that look good
That's right.
so that when they come out in video.
I'd like to see GREEN CARD,
I want to see AWAKENING.
AWAKENING, is supposed to be wonderful.
I'd like to see SILENCE OF THE LAMBS.
AWAKENING is supposed to be wonderful
my mom saw that
she said that was an excellent movie.
I've had somebody tell me that REGARDING HENRY, the Harrison
Ford movie is
supposed to be really good,
I'd like to see that.
I think that's supposed to be good,
have some doctors at church who said that DOCTOR was just wonderful.
I've heard that's
I think there's a bunch of good movies coming out.
My kids want to see RESCUER'S DOWN UNDER
I'm going to ha ,
my V C R went on the blitz about two weeks ago,
I'm getting it fixed right now
because they have their they watch all the time
and stuff
back to your movie you saw that ten thousand,
HUNDRED AND ONE DALMATIANS
did you all ever think about purchasing that one, when it comes out?
I look at those,
CINDERELLA came out
was for sale,
I don't buy them,
will copy them and rent them
and keep them at home
I just have a problem paying twenty five dollars for a movie that I can go down and rent for a dollar .
I understand that, too,
I understand that, too.
they had
they don't last that long.
they had HOME ALONE offered for like,
I think with the rebate you could get it for nine dollars
that's pretty good,
I thought close enough to being several,
you could rent it
more than onc ,
more than four times and watch that.
makes it worth it,
a lot of the Disney movies, it's just too expensive,
I can rent them
I can make a copy
I understand,
my daughter's in love with the LITTLE MERMAID
of course.
I have a copy that's just about worn out.
She's four
she just thinks the grou ,
in fact she told me, Mom if we have a little girl and she has red hair we're naming her Aerial.
sweet .
I'm not pregnant, mind you,
this is,
she's planning ahead,
in her plans.
to find a movie any more these days that you can take your kids
even the ones that we rent at home, the trouble with some of them I know,
we rented ADVENTURES IN BABY SITTING
I know.
thinking that would be so cute,
it's a precious movie,
the language in it is just for no reason, has to stick in,
I remember thinking it's a wonderful movie,
it's been so long since I
watched it,
I don't remember the language.
you watch,
Was it bad?
it differently when your kids are in the room,
that's true.
I was just sitting there going, my goodness,
I'm going to have to stop and explain,
they go, I know, Mommy, I know.
my kids weren't in the roo ,
you're right,
I watched it without them.
a little different, because you see things from a different
different angle.
we rented,
this summer before we went on vacation,
we rented Chevy Chase and that FAMILY VACATION.
those are just absolutely hilarious
you just really can't watch a lot of that.
We had to fast forward through a whole lot of it for them to see it .
Yes .
Some of it just isn't,
some of the books I've read lately have to do with crafty type things learned things that I'm going to do for my children for Christmas
they were really, helpful, because I didn't know how to do this one stitching,
that was very helpful to me as far as books.
Otherwise, I like to read children's books, and things like that.
What about you?
I was an English major,
I like to read period.
lately, I've been, on the whole, very practical,
I'm trying, furnish a home
I've been looking at books on, antiques and paintings and, interior decoration hints
and, lots of books on plants and gardens, because we started a garden
and like that.
I've been doing very little reading, except did finally dip into a couple of biographies. all of sort of literary figures of this century.
It's interesting that you said that.
My husband and I had, took a book out of the library about gardening, too, and started a garden, a fall garden.
Good for you.
I haven't gotten around to that.
, Yeah,
cantaloupes peppers and tomatoes are on right now,
it's been really fun,
we learned that, some of the gardening skills we had were before,
some of them we learned from a book
that was helpful to us.
I've read two books , that were, nonfiction lately
one was nonfiction and one was fiction,
the fiction one, was about a boy during the time of Adolf Hitler
he grew up and lived through a concentration camp
that was not enjoyment .
was too realistic and really, a real eye opener,
I guess it's good to read those things, too.
I didn't enjoy it necessarily
the other one was quite enjoyable.
It was, about Chinese lady and her generations down, what happened to her family through the years
that one was good.
I think all of,
even if they're not enjoyable, they bring you some kind learning,
even if it's the country that they're from or anything like that.
I like to read children's books,
I think that's the most animated and imaginative.
I like those a lot.
what are your favorite children's books?
there are a couple of Newberry Award winners.
A WRINKLE IN TIME is one
I don't know if you've ever read that
there's one about an Indian girl,
I can't think of that,
ISLAND OF THE BLUE DOLPHINS is another
that's a good one.
some of the ones that have just received the awards this year, I haven't read,
I would like to read those
it's funny, because I've read some from like nineteen twenty three and nineteen forty five and things like that
I didn't enjoy those as much,
I don't know if it's just because they didn't come from my era or what,
That's interesting,
you can't be an English major unless you like reading things from the past,
I've read a great deal of old things.
I tend to back,
I don't have any children
I don't read the new ones,
I occasionally, if no one's looking
dip into something like WINNIE THE POOH,
even that's good.
Or, the GRIMM'S FAIRY TALES or something like that
just because it's sheer magic.
my children and started a thing where I read a book with them before they went
to bed at night.
there was one called THE PIG PRINCESS,
it was princess from a long, long, time ago,
she came through spell kind of thing and ended up in a pig, sty,
the people that she came to were just farm people
she didn't understand them,
they didn't understand her,
it came together in this book,
it was really a lot of fun.
I think that,
I'm wondering camping means to you.
When I think of camping I think bugs , and sleeping bags tents, along the Appalachian Trail.
very good.
That's sort of the same thing I do.
I don't think of, trailers and campers and all this stuff.
do you do much camping?
I have never been camping .
you've never been camping.
Do you do much?
yes and no,
I haven't done much recently,
up until, maybe five or six years ago, I did a lot of it
you know I've,
Where you live now,
Did you camp up in Maryland,
I used to live abroad,
camped a lot in, the Middle East
I was able to camp right in ruins, which was always very exciting
I bet.
and, a bit exotic ,
for those who love bugs,
when I used to come back to the states in summer we'd often go up, to the lake country in New York
with my brother's family do camping there.
my husband his uncle especially, grew up camping together,
just love it,
they're planning a trip, into Canada I guess in about a year,
they're going to spend about a week and a half camping up there,
you're not going?
man's trip .
that's too bad,
they're really looking forward to that
I guess it makes a difference.
I grew up camping, being in Girl Scouts and things like that,
never exposed to it
feel like I'm a little bit too, much of a mouse to try doing it .
that's too bad.
I think certainly a lot of aspects you would like,
maybe not Canada men's trip, but some other,
a nice tent on shore of a lake,
What's the best part about it you, quiet, the getting away?
the no telephone, the,
you go to bed when it gets dark,
you get up when it gets light .
I guess the change,
from the rat race.
go and there's lots of other people around,
is it pretty much isolated.
pretty isolated,
to me, I like that, I guess, too, although there are people,
it's really hard to get away
I guess we did sites the Middle East, of course it was with a group, in order to make it safe
we'd go in different parts of the ruins, things like that.
we didn't even have tents there,
we just sort of put out the sleeping roll .
good grief.
does sound neat,
I don't think got quite enough nerve to do that.
I know my husband's gone, for several days on the Appalachian Trail before,
he said that go for, a good day before you'll see or meet anybody else on the trail.
it's not for the faint of heart, I don't think.
I just joined, the Appalachian Trail Walking Club, or whatever they call it,
I'm very eager start,
I love to walk
I'm going to start with day trips, though, because I don't know the territory and all,
I'm not sure,
my son is not eager to go
I think that might be a little eerie at first, going alone.
I think it would be,
that sounds really neat.
I'm going to try .
gee whiz,
I hope you get into camping some day, just slowly.
I don't know,
we talk about sometimes going up to Chincoteague
maybe, like you said, start out slow kind of get used to it, and find out that not as bad as fear it might be .
I think that,
I guess one time recently we went up to Maine, and had planned to camp,
the only site left when we got there was in the middle of a field,
I said, for twenty dollars we can go down the road and get motel
which we did,
if the setting was right and great,
if it's,
I've been thinking I'd love to buy a new car,
Oh .
right now, if I could afford it.
we have two cars right now
we're still paying on them,
I would love to have one of these new mini vans.
I've got two little ones
I think that would be just the perfect family car .
right now my car is terminally ill
Oh .
I am really facing the purchase of a car.
what I would like to have is so totally impractical for me that,
I won't do it.
What is it?
I would like for one time in my life to have a convertible.
I don't even like the wind blowing in on me
I don't know why I think I want one
I do.
I will probably stay with a foreign make.
I've had real good luck with them.
we went out to buy an American car
we bought, a Chevy Nova about three years ago.
we opened up hood
it said Toyota, made in Japan, right across the front of all the engine parts .
Is that right?
the Chevy Nova is the same car as the Toyota Camry.
at that time was the same car
they just put different names on them depending on who they're being shipped to.
I thought that was pretty n ,
I didn't realize it.
I knew Nissan which is Toyota a plant over here.
didn't know if it was General Motors or who,
I, I never thought of,
I know,
you think it's a Chevrolet in the good old U S A
That's why we were so surprised to see Toyota on the engine.
It was real interesting.
with so many options now available, cars are concerned, it just seems like almost too much of a choice anymore.
there's so many different options and so many different prices and who has this cash back and whatever.
I think that if I were really serious about looking for another car, I would take into consideration the price naturally.
I would really want something that I would want for that much money. For ten or twelve or fifteen thousand dollars or whatever.
that's minimum.
yea ,
definitely .
it's a major purchase,
What we used to pay for homes is now what a car,
can cost.
I cannot imagine that, somebody,
I heard a commercial or something about a sixty thousand dollar car about, how,
exciting it is to make that kind of a purchase,
I thought, I don't think I'd find that exciting .
I'd be wondering, here I am buying this expensive of a car and my house isn't worth that much money .
If they held their value, that would be one thing.
That's true.
when you consider that when you drive them off of the show lot,
they're immediately two thousand dollars depreciated.
I don't know that,
I'll go with,
I've bought a new car the last three that I've bought
I don't know that I'll buy a brand new one again.
we had a pretty,
we bought our Chevrolet brand new
we bought a used car .
Just a minute,
I'll change your diaper.
Then we bought next car used
we had better luck with our used car,
I like it more.
It cost us less money
we got more features and air conditioning and whatever on it then we did on our brand new one for twice as much money.
seriously considering going that route instead of a brand new car.
If you can find one that's .
If you can get someone that you trust to buy one from
make sure that you can have it checked out well enough .
have to have a new car every year.
I wouldn't .
Or at the most every two years
they don't drive them that much.
your foreign cars.
. huh.
(( Sh )) ,
like a Honda or, a Toyota.
Six thousand is just getting broken in for them.
if I can find one or a repossession.
we bought one like that.
with the banks being in such financial, problems now that people,
you can find the banks willing to sell you a car.
. We bought one car that way
we bought it real reasonably
it was in real nice condition because apparently whatever the bank get ...
Okay, Diane.
a very good afternoon to you.
to you.
Do you, do most of your cooking at home
do you, have a lot of people come in and have to prepare for them?
I do most of my cooking at home
I could safely say that I have never cooked for a dinner party.
My goodness .
what would you, like to cook?
what's, what is your favorite, recipes, that you would like to have
for a dinner party?
you're in Dallas, is it?
I'm in Dallas.
Of course, dinner parties down here probably, turn out to be more things like barbecues .
thinking in terms of Mexican almost,
Tex Mex,
Mexican food,
probably a little bit different than what you serve up in Pennsylvania for a dinner party.
that's a very interesting food though
when I go out to eat dinner sometimes
that's the type of foods I like to find.
We have,
I think som , Chico's
in these different restaurants
in this area that, have all this fine Mexican foods.
if I were to cook, a dinner party, it may be standard to you
I never get too much fried chicken.
Fried chicken.
I would have fried chicken, with reasonably hot sauce on it.
Almost a Mexican type thing.
I love twice cooked potatoes.
Have you ever had twice cooked potatoes?
I have.
a cream made of sour cream and cream cheese and, a little oleo and I use, oregano and
maybe dill weed, mixed in with it.
I like broccoli casseroles
which would include onion and cheese more dill weed
and some medium hot peppers.
As you can see, I'm inclined towards the Mexican type of a meal .
Right .
I would probably have some quiet and gentle fried onion rings mixed in there with it too.
how would you improve upon that?
improve upon that?
Let's see.
I'd probably put a bunch of fresh vegetables in.
More fresh vegetables?
Included to that?
green beans and,
carrots and things like that.
How do you cook your green beans?
My green beans?
I just get fresh green beans from the grocery store and snap off the ends and put them in water and steam them for about ten minutes.
you h ,
I like to put a little Mrs Dash in with them.
All right that's what I was wondering about.
you use
in herbs and so forth.
I like to just put a (( tablespoon )) or so of Mrs Dash in there.
it makes them pretty tasty.
Have you ever tried Chinese type green beans?
The Chinese type.
Are they the real,
We use soy sauce,
I haven't ever used that.
you might, be interested in that.
it gives a very delicious taste.
have a soy sauce taste
you also have a little cream sauce in there because you
you would use the, water and,
What's this white powder that you mix with water
A white powder.
and gives a thick sauce?
I can't even think of the name of that right at the moment.
sorry about my mind.
That's okay.
it does make a nice thick creamy sauce with the green beans
you have a nice soy sauce taste under it with a few onions in there with it.
If it does
brings out so much different things in,
in the string beans.
like it to try them differently.
I hardly ever cook them the same way twice.
Just so I can enjoy them.
you might, think about that.
I might try that.
Chinese cooking has a lot of very delicious tastes to them.
I love Chinese.
north African cooking is good
North African?
when you use something called couscous.
that's, made from, (( )) I think they call it, beans.
that's the type of something that whatever you mix with it this couscous, absorbs the taste of whatever else you put in it where that makes a very delicious dish.
You probably have to buy that from specialty stores.
C o u s, c o u s.
that's north African dish.
They eat it one to two meals everyday
in north Africa.
it is very very flexible.
You can do a lot of things with it.
It makes a fantastic, salad with cucumbers and,
olive oil and onions
real tasty.
I've enjoyed talking with you,
I hope I've
I've enjoyed
given you some ideas
talking with you.
that's one thing we can enjoy is good delicious food.
thank you very much Miss Diane.
thank you.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
All right, (( Carolyn,
When do )) you,
are you reading the papers about Middle East summit?
I'm just a little bit too.
I was from Middle East after the war.
I think didn't really take over the first page quite as much as it did I think during the war.
we definitely need something there with all the hostages and
Wha ,
what all.
That's I think,
I don't know in the short run it would be really nice to get the hostages all back.
I think that's really, really important.
I, I guess we grew up in such a different world I could never even imagine taking hostages.
I think they just have a whole different world than we do
I don't know.
I don't know what do you think some of the long term repercussions might be?
I just see this Middle East situation Russia and everything there that's happened I think that that crisis has kind of slowed down,
I see the Middle East as being,
the real hot spot of the future so to speak.
I guess I view it as being the prime importance as far as
wind down some of the tensions and everything that are there.
I think,
I don't know civil rights mentality guess.
You know should we
countries could have the same type of freedoms or whatever that we do.
I guess that's what hope for them.
some of them don't want those freedoms I think.
religious beliefs not,
they may not want it as a whole
I think that's something that has to be considered too.
I think really a long term type thing.
I know that
it said think about long term repercussions
I was just thinking, peace is peace
that really is the nicest thing.
I guess the question in my mind somewhat
it depends on the country,
I think some are more peaceful than others.
If you look at, Iraq for example
and the recent thing with the U N going in there
and bomb development and all this kind of stuff,
I think, we should have got him while we could
or whatever.
think so.
I think,
I think there's a certain mentality
to in the Middle East, constant fighting,
they realized we would probably never push him out
I think the other,
probably all of the other Arab countries said that we were sort of wimpy for not forcing him out.
I think look at force as a way of
means to their ends.
don't know so much if these peace talks are going to,
I don't know how much they'll stay to them.
even if we say that we're going to do stuff, I don't know how they'll stick to that .
think thing is though guess Arab countries that used to argue with us or not support any coincide with U S ideas or whatever used to probably receive money from the Soviet Union.
I guess that's all gone.
I think that's really, probably what started the whole process.
that's probably a bonus on our part.
it is.
that much more vulnerable now because they don't receive support
from the Soviet Union
I guess they're saying, we can eat two ways or we can get this aid free from these countries two ways.
We can act like we're going to be pro communist act like we're going to be
whatever gets us the most (( honor )) that's what we'll act like we're going to do,
we really won't change in the long run.
I think that's the way I sort of see them all working,
I tend to agree with you.
I think they have in mind what they want to do
I think a lot of times their (( )) (( might make right )) .
kind of the forceful,
I don't know.
I just don't think peace is uppermost in their minds .
really funny as an American and always being an ally with the Israelis.
I always find it very hard in my heart with the Israelis because they seem to be just as bad as the Arabs,
then again they have to live in that environment.
They have to be subjected to all of the Arab bombings,
and terrorist attacks and whatever.
Then they have to negotiate almost everything
then you think to yourself, in your heart you don't want to be aligned with somebody that's mean and cruel to someone else,
if that's the environment that they have to live in and survive in, then you have to sort of
I don't know,
I am as a matter of fact.
Not a good one,
I am a golfer.
that's about the way I am.
I don't consider myself a good one,
I do enjoy it.
I, haven't been out all year.
I didn't get out this year,
I enjoy both watching it and playing it.
I usually play a couple of times a month.
Sometimes more,
lately it's been just about that.
I do enjoy,
I think one of the things I enjoy the most is the beauty of the golf courses.
You can get out there,
the little critters that are around.
that's really neat.
You can just get out there and lose yourself in it and forget everything else in the world except what you're seeing out there.
That's right
it's such a personal challenge.
it really is.
More than competitiveness against someone else.
a competitiveness against yourself.
it's so frustrating,
I keep wondering sometimes why do I do this because it's so frustrating.
You think you do pretty good one day
you're doing a whole lot better,
all of a sudden you go back out
it's just terrible.
You can't do anything,
right .
you'll hear thirty and think,
Boy, I'm improving.
I got my game together.
I've had a par and a birdie,
and a bogey
you quadruple bogey .
. you think, why did I think I was doing better .
Being down there, do you, get to see, the colonial or any of those?
I don't,
I guess I could.
I've never been tournament.
I, watch them on T V a lot.
You really should go at least once.
had, the P G A up here.
I've been to both of them
is so much fun to
see these players you see on T V to hear that ball go whizzing by.
like a bullet going by.
I'll bet,
see their concentration and yet to see how friendly they are when they're, walk by you, and
how good they are to their spectators.
I've only been playing about three years now.
My husband's played for twenty five.
I just took it up about three years ago
we play in a lot of couple's scramble tournaments.
We belong to a country club a little ways outside of Dallas,
we have developed a tremendous number of friends that
couples do this
it's fun to go on vacations and things and go to golf courses.
it is.
You can meet some really neat people.
The scrambles are fun.
they really are.
I just love them.
I belong to the country club there in El Reno when I lived there
it's fun because it's so uncompetitive.
go out for fun.
That's right.
you won't,
you know you're stroke is just one of one or two or three
or four, that's going to make any difference.
That's right.
you just do your own thing and be relaxed and enjoy it .
That's right.
play in their tournaments.
now that was very competitive.
I enjoyed it tremendously,
I think I get more enjoyment just couple friends going out.
it takes one of us ten shots to get up to the green, so be it.
we just think, the next time has got to be better .
I have never played in any tournament except just a scramble.
They have a lot of them there at the club,
they have A B C D type tournaments
have the club championships and everything with the women's slots as well,
I don't know,
I've just never really gotten into that.
my husband and all the men, they love the real competitiveness of playing for money,
every hole.
not good enough for that .
Does your club have a good woman's association?
they do.
I don't do much with it since, most of theirs,
they have a traveling league,
most of their meetings and all are during the week
I get to play except on the weekend.
I work during the week all the time.
It's hard to be a weekend golfer and improve your game.
Someday when get where I live closer to the club and partially retired, maybe I'll, be able to play a little more
it's a, it's a good game.
wish I had more time to play
I felt, had more energy to play it, too.
My children are all grown up.
I've got two children
one is just turned to be a teenager
the other one is on his way,
a single parent,
I think it makes it more difficult for me to, find time with children since I
I'll bet.
of course, take care of the house all this good kind of stuff.
problem for me.
I'll bet it is.
What is the favorite thing you do with your children?
thing that we like to do the most is to watch T V together.
the kids like to play Nintendo,
I'm no good at it,
I don't like to play.
You just watch them play,
That's right,
that's right.
tried it once or twice,
I didn't feel like I was very good at it either.
Me either.
My grandson got me to one day,
they talk about these different levels and stuff
I've never got off of level one .
Different worlds
how do you get to another world,
don't even know what they're talking about.
I agree with you,
the other thing I think we like to go to the movies, too.
Do you?
neat thing.
I guess we're all movie, fanatics or whatever around here.
we like to do those kind of things.
I know when our kids were growing up, we were big into water sports.
We had a boat
they all skied
in the summer we spent most weekends on the lake with them skiing
they always took other friends with them
we had a lot of fun doing that,
how neat.
I had all girls
we didn't do too much sports wise.
I find my grandchildren are very involved in soccer and baseball
little boys do all of those things
I have a son
it's football in the fall baseball in the spring
it's one activity after another.
constantly going back and forth.
I'll bet you really are.
my daughter has, tennis,
it's between tennis bowling.
I bowl
we're pretty active as a sports,
the family,
really neat.
when mine were real little, they all played soccer
that was just for a couple of years
when they were pretty small for girls
they got more interested in other things,
Boys .
I'm not sure that they would admit it at that age, that it was boys,
I think that's probably what it was.
know that, my daughter, even though she goes out with sports and everything, she likes to watch the football for, the kids .
I'm sorry.
that was a cat that hit the telephone.
Get away, cat,
gosh .
I guess it's why they wanted to do it on this type of telephone because there's all kind of activity that goes on.
kids are, starting to grow up,
It's not going to be too many more years before they'll be gone
there won't be as many activities.
Do you,
you enjoy them,
I think, the older mine get, the more I enjoy them.
agree with you.
I'm so glad they're out of that
the babies,
I didn't,
it wasn't that I didn't like them
when they were little,
the older they got, I enjoyed them as teenagers.
now that they're each,
of course three girls, women in themselves that it's been neat to watch them.
what kind of mothers they are,
what kind of
that's so true.
How they do things
do your daughters live close where you can go out?
Two of them live real close to me.
spend a lot,
most of our time spent with them is, they come over to eat.
And bring the kids
we play with the kids,
Where d ,
we go camp out,
they camp out
we spend weekends country with them
quite a bit,
as far as doing any activity, now that the grand kids are here, we all just stay around the house mostly.
. That's true.
It's too much effort to go somewhere with all the kids.
I know, especially when they grow up like that,
make them really special and
very precious since that's, about the only time we've got left.
They'll always remember it, too.
think so, too.
I hear mine saying, I remember mother and daddy used to take us to do so and so.
I need to take my boys to do this or that,
I remember the year we went to Disneyworld, as quick as my kids are big enough, we're going to go to Disneyworld .
There we go.
they can't wait .
they just really can't wait to be able to take their kids where they had fun.
That's right,
that's right.
I still got a few more years,
hanging onto those and doing as much activity as I can with them.
Do you work?
I sure do.
I work full time,
that cuts into our free time right there.
It really does.
The time you have with them has to be quality time then.
That's right,
that's right
vacations are very special for us, and activities.
I imagine that they have, a lot of homework, too.
this being a school night and stuff,
in the same old routine of, doing homework and, trying to talk between all of that the other activities that we all have.
there's just so many things to do with them nowadays, though,
especially if they're active kids.
Like you say you bowl.
Let me ask you. Do you think the Soviet Union is a, still a threat to the United States?
Do you know
I don't know what to think.
the person I am I want to believe that it's an honest effort.
I want to believe they really are trying to change. maybe they are headed for a more democratic society
want to believe it's all okay.
then there's that side of me that says, yeah,
they've put on faces before.
And never to this extent though,
it's like there is a struggle within me going I be open minded and give them the benefit of the doubt which is kind of my basic personality.
I trust people.
I'll do that.
do I keep on going, we'll wait and see .
I think there's struggle within the Soviet Union.
I think the people just fed up,
I think it's showing
all the republic is trying to gain their independence,
I think, that's making Gorbachev and others realize that, maybe this Communist thing isn't working.
that's it's not just a western society telling you it doesn't work.
they've always said, Soviet people were united,
we believe this,
maybe they are seeing that, we don't believe this,
That's right.
I think,
it's still,
I guess I keep that one part of me that's like,
I don't know I want to trust them
it's like I can't,
maybe it's because, we've had our own propaganda over the years,
I don't know.
could be.
You know what I,
think of the K G B and we think such bad things,
I wouldn't doubt if the Soviet people think C I A and they think such bad things,
they probably do the same things.
They do.
You think the C I A doesn't spy?
I'm sure they do.
they do,
the difference is don't think we take people and kill them just because they don't believe what we believe.
I think to that extent we don't go as far
I'm sure they lie.
That's part of that propaganda thing,
I think if we can get away from that, or if we can keep that out of our minds,
I've got a cold today.
That's all right.
I hope you get better .
Thank you.
I think if we can get that propaganda thing because I'm sure both countries are thinking K G B and C I A and all that
just on an economic point of view, if the Soviet Union doesn't do something fast ain't going to be able to feed their people this,
this winter,
That's true.
on the other hand, I'm kind of getting fed up with, our own country and presidency, always concerning themselves with other nations' problems when we have so many at home yet.
I'm not against them being concerned
I feel like we ought to be spending maybe the same time and effort energy into trying to solve our own or resolve our own.
country that wants to be democratic I'm all for helping them, because understand that, you are looking at the United States as the biggest and longest supporter of that type of government.
at the same time agree.
I don't think we can do it just, turn our backs be ignorant per se to the things that are happening here.
That's right.
quite a few domestic problems I feel we ought to be concentrating more on.
I think the problem is,
on the international scope maybe the president feels that, for long term relations with all these countries it's important
always have the United States.
we need to solve these international problems
I think I heard in the news about last week sometime that, the president ended up canceling one of his international trips so he could spend more time issue because the American public is kind of getting fed up with it.
we believe in what he's doing abroad
like you said there's issues here too.
am encouraged by what is happening in the Soviet Union.
I'm encouraged by what's happened in, iron curtain countries,
that block
I think it's moved in the right direction.
think sometimes people expect it to happen overnight.
it's not going to.
It didn't happen here overnight,
it didn't happen here without a struggle.
That's right.
That's right.
think sometimes we forget that.
I, I have to say, encouraged by the way it's going.
think, I think in the long,
Okay, Lowell,
I'd like to know, do you do in lawn and garden,
what's of interest to you
how do you go about it?
I have a town home,
I don't do a lot of regular maintenance,
I do have a large garden out in back,
we do a lot of things with perennials and, also a few annual plants,
every year I grow a garden.
grow a garden to produce food?
how much room do you have?
we have virtually no room out in front,
in the back I'd say we have about an eighth of an acre
we pretty much fill it up with, like I said, perennials, things that have to fool with every year,
then I've got, a twenty five by twenty area that I do gardening, as far as, tomatoes and cucumbers and beans
that's what I was curious about,
I was wondering whether you had actually some of the flowers that you had planted were bulb type that you would dig up put down your garden and then put them back in later, or something like that.
we have a separate area for the garden.
you do have a separate area.
last year was the first year we tried two new things.
We tried corn,
we tried a watermelon.
tell me this, Lowell,
enjoy doing that kind of work,
do you have the time to relax so that you can take advantage of it?
I enjoy doing it on a limited basis.
I don't think that if I,
the reason I bought a townhouse is so that I wouldn't,
I get,
I'm allergic to grass.
I don't mow grass or anything like that.
I think if I had a big home and a big lawn don't believe I would enjoy it.
just on the limited basis that I do it, I do enjoy it very much.
I'm a little more fortunate I think from that point of view.
I'm not allergic to things,
I moved here in State College quite a while ago and was fortunate to get some land.
I have nine acres .
for many years I grew sweet corn,
my kids were there,
we set up a shop there,
I would, collect the corn very carefully, ear by ear,
it was never more than one to two hours old,
people came from miles and miles around to get that corn, because they knew it was individually picked and very, very fresh.
How about that.
we had a nice thing going there,
it was delicious.
I really enjoyed that,
I also have garden.
it's probably, twenty five by thirty or forty, something like that, that I put in my normal food garden things each year,
I have in the
I love, broccoli, brussels sprouts,
I have all kinds of tomatoes, kale, and all those good things,
I rent out my field that I used to plant in sweet corn to a local farmer,
he plants about a quarter of an acre of sweet corn for me to use,
I get out of that amount of work at any rate.
that's nice.
very, very nice.
really enjoy it.
My problem is not having enough time to do the job as completely and as thoroughly as I would like.
I enjoy it very much.
That much land requires an awful lot of time.
it does.
I had a pony there for twenty five years,
he had two acres that he had for his own grazing .
How about that.
he had his own backyard garden, too.
worked out very nicely too.
I built him a barn back there in the part of my corn field,
he lived in that,
as far as gardening is concerned, we do enjoy it.
My wife is in charge of the flowers.
She does all of the flower gardening throughout the whole property,
we have, and a half that the house is sitting in the middle of,
she has flower gardens and bulbs, perennials and things.
We have blueberries, blackberries.
I have two or three, apple trees,
the Golden Delicious were fantastic this year.
My neighbor has pear trees, and, blueberries, all kinds of food around there, if we just had time to take advantage of it.
My wife has spent probably I don't know how many hours in the last two or three weeks canning pears, because there were so many of them,
I have been totally engulfed with Golden Delicious apples.
I just couldn't handle amount of them we got this year.
It's really been a remarkable year.
I bet you could answer a question for me.
What's a good apple to bake pies with?
I use my Golden Delicious,
they make delicious pies.
Are there m 'n
there's an afflu
do you participate in family reunions?
I did for years.
I don't have enough family left to have them.
Did you,
were they far away,
were they close?
I come from a family that was very large in Bell County
my grandfather came to Bell County on a covered wagon
how neat.
and had ten children,
sometimes we would have a reunion with that group.
sometimes we would go to Arkansas where they came from and have a reunion with the entire group,
that would be fun.
it was a lot of fun.
have a family reunion on my mother's side of the family that's,
it started probably about forty years ago, because I remember going as a teenager before I was ever married,
my husband and I went, while we were still dating,
it's still going on,
it used to be held at Lake Brownwood, down at Brownwood, Texas,
now we hold it at, Lake Texoma so that the Oklahoma group doesn't have to drive as far.
we have had as many on a Saturday night,
it starts on Friday and goes through Sunday,
we've had as many on a, Saturday night as about two hundred and fifty.
we would have group like that in Arkansas.
We'd have two hundred and fifty or three hundred.
we took,
our family all brought in food and everything.
many of us came from a long way that usually at a motel
we bought food there.
I know on Sundays we all elect now to chip in
we go get Kentucky
Fried Chicken and bring out.
we kind of take our food for three days,
now our grandchildren are participating in it
just love that they have all this little batch of cousins that they get to see
about once a year
(( )) enthused and with it
our children, thoroughly enjoy it.
it's been kind of nice.
It started out when I was a youngster and watching my mother.
Now I'm to the (( )) mother was
I am, now the older generation and doing more of the cooking and watching my daughter
more and everything,
it's something I really miss, because I had twenty seven first cousins
my word.
we were very close family,
our father's generation was enough older than I,
my father would be a hundred now
that they're all dead,
in fact, many of my first cousins are dead
are they?
of course they have their own families and grandchildren and all that,
we very rarely all of us get together
Get together any more.
we're a long way away,
the younger generation, the next like my cousin's children, I don't know very well,
I doubt that that will come to be again,
as long as my oldest aunt lived we, we got together once a year.
now we have noticed a waning of interest,
parents get older and start dying off, I think sometimes it is hard to keep the interest going.
folks have gotten so mobile,
I have a son and a daughter and two nephews that are grown
and a brother who has a new marriage and a younger son,
my brother and his wife live in Nevada, my daughter lives in Colorado, one of my nephews lives in New York City, one nephew lives in Memphis
and my son lives here,
I think it's very unlikely we'll have a family reunion,
you probably do good just to get your immediate family together.
I'm divorced,
really only immediate family I have left is
I have a son and a daughter.
my family's really all dead.
it was great pleasure while we did it,
they're a lot of fun.
my si ,
I have a sister,
we have a son and a daughter
we have three grandchildren
our son and daughter are both married
our son's not as interested in it as our daughter,
is really interested.
Does it bother you if your children are not interested in it?
I beg you pardon?
Does it bother you if your children are not interested in it?
a little bit.
wish that our son was
the cousins are closer to our daughter's age, than to our son's and just totally different,
interest group,
newly married and doesn't have children
I'm hoping,
that as they, are,
married a little bit longer and have children that they may be more inclined
to want to go, to it,
I know that.
what kinds of things do you do to try to get your children interested?
. Just talk to them about it?
talk to them about it, and, tell them some of the things we're doing.
when he was a preteen, when he was like ten or twelve
he loved going,
he had another cousin he was close to and went,
that cousin kind of quit going,
as he got to be a teenager, he wasn't quite interested.
He was more interested in rock and roll,
this is more country western group
just lack of interest,
All right.
keep forgetting to make these calls.
I've been on this list for two months.
I just,
I think I've made four calls .
I just got mine last week,
I haven't started yet because I wanted to get one first
see how it worked.
there are some kind of nice prizes,
it's worth doing it.
I so mad I think I've had this for two months
made four calls,
lot of times we don't answer the phone, probably when I get mine
early in the evening .
we're supposed to talk about movies.
Have you been to any lately?
was trying to think of the one I went to a couple of weeks ago,
I forgot it already.
I haven't really seen one since probably August because, every weekend the Fall we go to our high school football game on Friday
then we go out with friends after,
that's kind of the
That's your weekend.
our social
for the,
I saw, ROBIN HOOD, which I didn't care for.
I didn't see that, because I didn't think I would care for it.
my husband dragged me to it.
think Kevin Costner's a nice fellow,
he's nice looking,
he just, to me, is not a very dynamic actor.
I think that's why a lot of people go to see him, though .
I guess because he is good looking.
I don't know .
Right .
I don't know .
I saw CITY SLICKERS.
Did you see,
that was a,
I did see that
That's the last one I saw, I think.
I really enjoyed that.
I did too.
I thought that was so cute,
I thought that was appropriate just for everyone.
I do too.
It was great.
really enjoyed that.
my daughter went to see that one too.
it was fine for her
Which most of them probably aren't .
that's right.
I don't know what my kids see any more.
My kids are twenty and sixteen,
they've probably seen about everything at this point .
Probably they have.
my daughter is twelve
we had a sleep over one night.
They wanted to watch PRETTY WOMAN, which I have
I was hesitant,
they all had seen it anyway.
I know it.
(( )) all twelve,
That's the way it is.
We can see some pretty raunchy stuff just regular T V without cable or anything.
they do
they do.
there's no way to protect them any more.
love Julia Roberts movies,
I didn't think they were great for my daughter .
it'll teach a great lesson, because she ended
(( )) .
it was a fun movie to watch.
I love PRETTY WOMAN,
I like that one after that where,
what was it?
It was like a FATAL ATTRACTION thing.
the scary one?
I didn't see that,
I don't remember the name of it
that was so good.
That was really excellent.
I like scary ones that are realistic.
that was.
They say (( )) is really frightening, too.
What was?
(( )) , the new one that came out.
I don't know.
They say it's really horrifyingly scary
I'd never get my husband to that.
He doesn't like to be scared .
The last scary thing I saw was MISERY.
my kids both saw that.
They liked it.
That scared me to death,
I watched it at a friend's house on video
I was just.
it was still scary?
It was horrible.
It was so awful.
that one sounded gross,
I know my husband wouldn't have stood for that.
likes MARY POPPINS and things .
I like that, too.
I like funny movies
I like scary movies.
I do too,
really like a variety.
Where are you from?
I'm from New York.
I was going to s ,
my husband's from New Jersey,
Is he really.
we lived there for five years when we first got married
it sound kind of nice,
it was familiar your accent.
it's so close,
I'm from Long Island
that's close,
more related to New Jersey than it is to like Rochester, New York, kind of thing.
I don't know (( )) up there.
it's different,
I guess.
the accents up there fascinated me, because even in his family alone, there were several different accents
the way they would pronounce words differently.
his family, they lived in the same house there,
most of them were twenty or so
they were all from New Jersey.
they lived,
they never moved into apartments when they were young,
they always stayed at home until they got married,
it seemed to be the custom up there.
they went in the service,
they were together for all that time .
they still,
their accents differed a little in the family
When did you live there?
in the sixties.
(( )) I finally.
I was in New York in the sixties.
I converted him to being a Texan.
just thought life would be,
I knew it was easier back here.
Are you from Texas?
sort of.
I'm an Air Force brat,
I was real familiar with Texas.
I went to college here and everything.
I just thought, we could probably get a better house,
life is a little slower, a little easier.
He loves it.
really, would never want to leave,
it worked out.
I'm used to it now.
I like.
Not hard when you first came.
Was it hard when you first came?
it was. Because we're here eighteen years
you can imagine what Plano was like eighteen years ago.
I know,
It was very difficult.
compared to New York,
it was very, very difficult.
I didn't even want to talk.
Were you all transferred?
I have a friend down the street's from New Jersey
they were,
he got a,
What kind of books do you like best?
I alternate between Danielle Steele is one of my very favorites
I try to go into one of the self improvement books.
take books every once in a while in our Sunday school class and go through them.
I love Scott Peck and his ROAD LESS TRAVELED.
I've heard of that one.
it is
don't think I've read it.
it is wonderful.
thoroughly enjoyed that.
What do you read?
I'm a Tom Clancy fan.
I read,
I just finished a book on Novelle Netware,
that's computer stuff.
I do a lot
of computer reading
I'm just finishing another one up on, statistical sampling,
I do more work kind of related reading than, just for enjoyment.
try to keep a book going all the time.
I try to read when I first wake up in the morning and then before I go to sleep.
I probably get, thirty to fifty pages a day read.
that's pretty good.
I just,
I don't feel like,
in fact this morning, I was almost late for work because I'm almost at the end of this book
I didn't want to put it down .
I've had them like that before, too.
Any particular writer?
I like, F oh,
I'm drawing a blank.
he wrote the, BOURNE ULTIMATUM.
Lud ,
Ludwig, yes.
I like Jeffrey Archer.
What does he
He is an English author who writes some mystery.
I guess a type of mystery.
They're usually some p ,
he's a ex lawyer
a lawyer who no longer practices,
his have some part of the law, enveloped in them.
you kind of learn something as well as yourself.
the new author that came out with, the one that, Harrison Ford starred in.
RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK stuff.
it was
it's late,
I'm tired,
I'm not
thinking too well.
what time is it there, ten thirty?
it's nine thirty here.
was his first book.
was on the top of the list,
he was a D A
PRESUMED INNOCENT?
I haven't seen the movie, or read the book
came out with the second one.
a sequel to it.
both of those I've enjoyed real well.
like that.
I love Danielle Steele
if I want to get a fantasy and
Is she
get away from it all.
is she kind of racy?
she isn't at all.
Just feel good.
Her books,
you always cry.
always good for good tears.
one book that she wrote that's good for both men and women is FINE THINGS,
F I N E, THINGS.
mother in law's a real fan of hers.
one that's,
always going to make you have a good cry
you know it's going it turn out good
you're going to be happy in the end .
that's nice.
I said,
I don't want anything too real anymore.
I have enough of that in my own life.
happy, fantasy
you mentioned Sunday school Ladonna.
do you,
are you a BIBLE fan, too?
do my share of it.
certainly can't say that I understand a lot of it.
that's always a challenge.
do you do,
my wife talks with other people,
Okay Jerry.
Ok ,
I guess, tonight's topic is about, personal computers and level of interest expertise.
Oops .
fire away.
first of all,
you want me to start off?
why don't you do about thirty seconds
I'll do thirty seconds
we can work off of there.
first of all, yes,
I do own a P C here at home
I also have one at the office.
my level of interest is quite high with P C s
interested in them, however, not to the extent as I was about, two years ago when I basically knew about everything there was to know about different things
that was the time when we were shopping for one.
I think we got a top of the line at that time,
as you know P C s change quite rapidly
the technological advances kind of outdated our P C where I can get the same P C I got two years ago at the fraction of the cost.
I also enjoy using ours at home
we use it for number of different things.
Plus I get in of good use of one at
Lot of, analytical, testing, reviews, lot of different things I use it work,
I enjoy P C s
make my life and my work a lot easier.
How about yourself?
I guess since this time last year I've changed, jobs within the firm I'm with
I now am learning to be a sys admin not only P C s, but, professional work stations
as well.
All right.
these are the big mamas, i. e. sons, Hewlett Packards,
the big Solburns so forth.
h ,
we have, two P C s here.
We have, an X T
recently made command decision to go ahead and get, the absolute top of the line because spouse is a, programmer.
we got one that,
that could do enough, and, hold three different O S s.
As far as DOS, UNIX, and, O S Two.
get to see all kinds of different applications.
Sounds like you're an expert at it, too.
be, one who knows what's he's doing
no .
I frown on term because, too many people, misuse the word
I'd rather say am continually learning,
my level of expertise is increasing almost daily.
that's great, be ,
I've got a P C and a work station at work
we have two P C s here at home.
a lot of the new mama we're,
I've got Aldus and, Micrographics on it as far as, technical publishing
we do quite a bit of church work with ours.
We do an awful lot of that, too with ours.
I've found that, the more we do with it,
it seem,
the Lord's just pleased that we're kind of,
part of giving back a portion of what He's given to us.
I don't mind, because seems like the more we do, the more stuff that's, available that comes along and so forth.
Definitely agree with that.
rather than being niggardly chintzy, we've just said, you bet, boss, seeing as he was the one that,
enabled us to get the money to buy the Four Eighty Six.
the top of the line we've got,
we've got a compatible.
Eight meg of ram two hundred and eleven hard drives.
you got,
that's a Four Eighty Six processor, too?
Wow .
Like I said
we bought a real burner.
mainly because of spouse's UNIX
because UNIX
Has to s ,
you have to have that to support UNIX.
takes a four megs minimum
of RAM.
of RAM
it likes to live on about a hundred and fifty megabyte hard drive.
Right .
the next size up was a Two Hundred and Eleven
rather than just have one, we went ahead and got two.
at some point in time I'm going to do the mirroring, experiment to where one disk mirrors the other for
fault tolerance.
of the angel, she just walked in .
good for her .
T I stuff .
You say she's a programmer also.
a squirrel for, contractor out at American Airlines.
she probably needs that kind of a powerful type of a machine to do her work.
you ready to discuss topic?
What's the topic?
the topic is social changes and discuss social changes in America and how they relate, or how they differ today than they were ten, fifteen or thirty years ago.
You ready for that?
You bet.
Okay .
I'll let you lead out.
Pardon me?
I'll let you lead out.
it's kind of an interesting topic
one that I think is quite fascinating because, couple of years ago, I guess,
long ago, seemed like the whole world, not just the United States, but the whole world was kind of in a standstill where everyone was basically in, a very comfortable position, so to say, even though cold war in full swing.
you had the, the Russians against the Americans, the Communists against the Free World,
in the last couple of years things have changed dramatically, not only on the political front but also on the economic front, where, couple of years ago America was one of the leading powers and one of the strongest nations in the world as far as economics were concerned,
now we're having a very tough time in a recessionary period.
We're also have a very humongous trade deficit,
that's kind of frightening.
Also, a couple of years ago, ten, fifteen years ago, an individual going into a career could expect to have that career basically throughout their whole life,
thirty years ago, basically it, whereas now we're expected to have a career change career changes throughout our lifetime,
I think, things,
there's been an awful lot of social change lately,
we ,
I think one of the things that's interesting to me is if you look particularly at the political changes
is that driven also.
if you look at Russia and what's happened over there, I think the change in Communism was as a result of the economic problems that they were experiencing.
of course, I look at the economic problems in the United States right now.
One of the things you wonder is what that's going to do to us.
I think the other kind of changes like job changes and those kinds of things, I think it's great to even have three or four different careers
in your life.
I think it must have been terribly boring to go through,
your life doing just one thing for fifty years or forty years.
Some of that opportunity for job change in the fact aspects changing.
the uncertainty of whether you're going to have a job is not as good,
the fact that you really can make major changes in your life
and jobs.
you think that's good or bad?
I think it's great.
You think that's great.
That's some,
because a lot of people seem to stagnate once they get into position,
very comfortable,
they lose the ability to learn,
they in a sense become unteachable.
They think they know all there is to know in the area, set path, and come in and put my time in from nine to five,
when that's over with, it, without even giving a second thought to (( )) , advancing their education or getting extracurricular, education,
I think that's an excellent opportunity for us to expand ourselves also.
I think one of the problems education as it relates to this, though, is that I don't know that education is prepared to help people make those changes.
It just seems a lot of the training and education that goes on is gearing people towards a profession
and not giving them the skills and whatever those skills are necessary to make those job changes, which I think is going to be a hard thing people to face.
I agree with that,
I agree with that.
I believe that, an individual should really learn how learn
learn how to adapt,
learn how to grow their college or whatever education they might take.
that's good.
There probably needs to be some training on how to adjust to these changes as they come about.
if you look at high unemployment rate right now
you look at people who are in those situations, I don't know that they have good coping skills or a lot of them, even ideas of how to make those changes now.
it seems to me that while those changes are taking place, maybe we're not well preparing people to make the changes with them.
read a few articles off in the newspaper and some publications where stress, for those people that are laid off and also for those people that are not laid off but were threatened with a layoff and threatened with a reduction in their company is extremely high right now.
That stress is a very prominent factor in the work place
it affects,
Nancy, what do you think, some of the changes in roles of women are in American society in the past generation or two?
of course, working.
That's definitely got to be the biggest thing, is that everybody's out there working
including me .
what do you think it is?
I agree.
I also think that there are more,
the people are,
women stay single longer it seems like.
Yes, they do.
they do.
I know my mother and her sister were both married by the time they were twenty
I waited until I was thirty two,
I know that.
that's true.
It's a big change.
I'm an O B nurse
I really do see what you're saying there.
It used to be that our list ran nineteen, twenty, twenty one for our patients' ages.
now our care plans look more like thirty two, thirty three
if we get somebody twenty one, we go, look how young.
you're right there's a big change,
we have a lot of first time moms in their late thirties and even forties.
it's true.
again, I guess it probably does go back to the same thing of women having careers.
If they didn't have,
if they weren't out there working and having their careers
they probably would be married and having their children .
Seems like there's.
I guess it's a combination.
go ahead.
go on.
it just seems like there are more single mothers, too.
a lot of, divorced never been married,
there's a lot of mixed up families, that's for sure.
I agree.
what do you think have been the most significant changes in the past generation or so?
just that.
I think the families,
role in the family,
the mother doesn't stay home and cook the dinner
take care of the children,
we do it all .
I really think that,
I know that there's a lot more participation by the fathers,
I still think the mothers have the major role.
I really do.
I think not doing very much less,
I don't think as far as the kids the house and everything
are concerned, not from what I see
they're contributing to the income besides.
I think that we're putting a lot of stress on ourselves.
affecting the families
it is.
for mothers to be home, yet,
don't blame anybody when they have to work
I think that,
I live in Plano actually,
it's a very wealthy town,
we're not part of that,
it is,
I think what I see a lot of parents, a lot of mothers working just for bigger and better
I really hate that
I hate to see that,
been here for a very long time
I don't know,
now I'm a single parent,
I don't have a choice any more
I used to just work occasionally for extra money,
now I have to work all the time
that's really hard
I don't know how a mother does just choose to go out to work, leave the kids.
In a way to get out with adults,
I think that's a good thing, if you can do it
part time.
to just go out there forty hours a week, at least and
and work leave your kids to get home from school alone, and that kind of thing, I think that's not very smart.
I think that's
difficult on them.
what do you think's going to happen in the next generation?
You think it'll continue?
it's going to be interesting.
I think it will change,
I'm not sure how it's going to, because you see young people today and wonder how in the world they'll ever afford to buy a home and
and to raise a family.
I don't know how they're going to do it.
I don't know how it can change to where the mother can get back into the home again.
I don't that ever will go backwards
I don't know what effect it's going to have on these kids now when they grow up, how they're going to feel about it.
could lead to another Woodstock type thing, where
where there's just too much material things,
maybe these kids will really resent that their parents are out there working for things
they might want to do without things rather than do that to their families.
It's hard to say.
it is.
I think some,
I don't know what percentage, but some will move back toward more traditional lifestyle of staying home with the children.
I guess I see that happening already.
Some choosing it,
they get,
people chide them for it,
why aren't you out,
I've pressed the button.
Let me tell you.
I haven't been too many places .
You haven't been to too many places.
I haven't.
I have been to Hawaii.
that is where I want to go.
That is where I have always wanted to go.
I have never been there.
It is beautiful.
I know.
I had an aunt that lived there
she couldn't stand it any more.
She moved out because she said the whole island was, being taken over by the Japanese.
a lot of Japanese over there.
they are,
she, also told me that,
not her, necessarily, other people that have been there have said that it is too commercialized.
Is it?
There is,
it is commercialized.
there is still a lot of beautiful places to go and see.
On all of the islands.
I don't think I have enough,
Oahu naturally has got more people on it than the other islands.
it is still beautiful.
You have got to see at least once.
I will.
eventually .
what is the nicest island?
I like Maui.
I think that is what usually people,
say they do, like the best.
I like it because the beach is nice and white
it is like Oahu,
you can go over there and lay on the beach
it is really nice.
Where the island of Hawaii, you can't really lay on the beach over there.
the beaches are nice,
I don't know, just not nice as Maui.
have you been?
I have been to California.
I've been to San Francisco.
you have?
I loved it.
I absolutely loved it.
How long ago?
eighty six.
My sister lives out there .
My sister lives in Piedmont.
I know where that is at.
Because I use to live in Oakland.
that is right near Piedmont.
that is like a suburb or something, whatever.
she was in Berkley also
lets see I went when she living,
when I went out there she was in, Lafayette.
She was living in Lafayette.
they moved to Piedmont.
haven't seen, her house in Piedmont
I loved San Francisco.
I would like to go back.
Did you go on the cable cars and everything?
Isn't that fun?
Went to Alcatraz.
we did the whole bit.
we went to the wine country.
Oh yeah.
Up by Napa.
we went to Carmel.
we took the eighteen mile drive.
Isn't that pretty.
I love it down there.
it is beautiful.
That is really beautiful.
My girlfriend was down there a few months ago.
First time she has been down there
they wanted to take that drive
they had closed the whole road because of, fog,
the weather.
they never got to do that.
I have also been to the Carribean.
I haven't been there either .
You name it, I haven't been there .
I, have been there a couple of times.
I went on a cruise.
that is nice.
The last time I went, I went with my two sisters.
it was over Christmas time.
we really had a good time.
had this cruise director dress up like Santa Claus,
we went to the beach
they had put a Christmas tree on the beach
decorated it up.
a lot of fun.
that's nice.
Is, a cruise nicer than, if you just go, to a hotel?
It is.
I have heard it is.
you don't have to worry about unpacking or anything like that
You put your clothes in your room,
you will have to go on one.
You don't get seasick?
That is what I am afraid of.
there was,
some people did, on that last cruise that we took because they was having a storm come in
that is unusual.
one of my sisters got sick,
the other one didn't
I didn't.
it is really nice
just do so many things for you, to make you enjoy the trip and everything.
you will have to do that once.
I want to go on another one,
I want to go to Alaska.
someone I know was on a cruise to Alaska.
Was it to Alaska?
I am pretty sure.
That is right my hairdresser .
She went last year.
She said she went on a cruise.
I was thinking, cruise I am thinking.
she is laying on the beach.
I said, you are not very tan for someone who has been on a cruise .
She said we went to Alaska .
I would like to go,
Hawaii number one.
I would also like to go to Australia
get a,
I think I would like to, too.
I keep hoping to win the lottery where I can do all these things.
I just in the Publisher's Clearing House and the READER'S DIGEST, because we don't, F
right now the lottery here,
Okay. what do you think about the government providing health insurance for everybody?
I think they should.
I know I had a job until, let's see, a year ago this past December.
I was working for P I E
they closed,
naturally while I was working for them I had health insurance,
for me to try to get it now, it would cost me over three hundred dollars a month with the same company that was providing health insurance P I E.
Good grief.
That's just almost unaffordable, isn't it?
it really is,
the government should come up with some kind of a health plan, or stop these doctors and hospitals from having their prices so high.
I wonder if they couldn't just provide, interim health insurance for people who are between jobs like that.
That might be a step in the right direction.
I don't know.
the thing is, jobs are so hard to find
what you can get out here, in,
in the valley where I live at now, they don't want to pay anything for health insurance at all.
No benefits,
You mean the, the employers?
you get a job now, and the wages are really low
Because everybody's competing for jobs.
they don't want,
to pay any benefits,
you just, pray to God that you don't get sick.
I used to think that universal health insurance was probably the right thing to do.
have to think about it some more now, because my doctor Canadian
he told me that there're a counts against the Canadian system, which is basically the one people are talking about for here.
I don't understand the arguments, exactly.
He says it restricts your choice of doctors, so forth.
I'm not quite sure I understand why government health insurance would restrict your choice any more than private insurance does.
I don't understand
that either.
we're on a private insurance plan right now,
I have my own business,
our health insurance is through my wife's employer,
every year we get another list of what doctor's we can go to, and where we can buy our medicine,
it changes every year .
It's always so confusing.
I know the plan that I had with P I E, I could go to any doctor
I could go to any drug store and get my prescriptions filled,
then I just sent cards in
they would have like a ten dollar deductible per year for my medicine,
C and
then they would just send me a check for what was ever over that,
Of course, the restricted choice in this case is because only certain doctors agree to accept limits
of, compensation,
of course that is restricted choice,
I don't think that the restricted choice really, has to do with the difference between, public and private health insurance.
I think it has to do with the, attempt to limit cost, doesn't it
everybody agrees that we need to limit cost some way,
that's true,
that's true there.
I guess the most sensible thing I've heard about this is they say people are trying.
have to recognize that if you're going to have the very best health care possible and, available on demand whenever and wherever you want it, then it's going to be expensive.
if you want to pay less, then you're going to have to settle for a health system that is not quite that, lavish.
there's just so many people that can't afford to pay anything,
people that's on unemployment.
what happened to Reagan's safety net, anyway?
I don't .
Did he take that back to California with him?
Using it for a trampoline now?
probably so.
I don't know,
seem to be a big problem,
I don't know what they're going to come up with,
I sure wish they would come up something,
like I say,
I'm at the age, too, where the,
I'll be fifty seven in June,
the people don't want to hire people this age any more.
I worked for my previous company for twenty six years,
it's kind of hard,
they'll be needing you in a couple of years, because they're running out of kids down the other end.
they'll be calling at my door,
if they're smart.
do think the government, though, is going to have to do something, with this problem, because, even to go to a little doctor out here, just to ask him anything, costs you forty bucks
just for the visit.
then that's not counting what medicine you're going to buy and everything else,
he might tell you, you're going to have to come back in a week,
C and
then that's another forty bucks, plus whatever else he decides to do to you,
Okay, Bill,
as you think over the plans and so forth that the company you're working with now,
who do you work with at this time?
I own the company.
You own the company.
All right.
I'm the president and C E O of the company.
My goodness.
I guess, I determine what the benefits are .
I guess you do.
what are you asking me,
benefits I think are most important?
do you think of the,
let's put it this way,
what do you think are the most important benefits for those working for you, their present salary?
I'd say in today's economy, besides basic benefits, such as, health insurance and life insurance and some type of retirement plan
I'd say that, most of the employees, that we have really like profit sharing plan.
A profit sharing plan,
that's interesting,
They like to participate in the profits of the company like they're,
because they feel like, we're contributing to it,
we'd like to participate in it,
that means I make a little bit less,
the thing is that really you make a little more, because everybody has a interest it working.
have a specific reason to do so, because they themselves benefit from doing a better job.
I think most people, don't want money,
it's been my experience, most people want, to feel like they're participating in something is not a drudgery, that they
enjoy, and that they can get some benefits out of.
it's a contribution.
Bill, that idea fits me exactly.
I just retired from, the university here,
that's been the goal in my life, was to contribute to the work that I was doing in my research,
that's what made me happy,
that's the type of goal I think most people ought to look for,
I'm sure a lot of them don't.
You can't stand in front of a counter and do that kind of stuff all day and feel like that you're contributing something to a scientific level of knowledge or so forth.
our people get a lot of satisfaction.
we're a financial planning firm.
You're a financial planning firm?
How many,
You said you retired,
I just happen to have a person that I happened to do some planning for this morning,
deal with a lot of people that are retired or trying to retire
it's real important, that their benefit plans that they get from their companies and from their work where they were, that, that it take care of them.
They don't,
none of them really want to be rich,
they like to have enough to be comfortable.
changes have you considered, in doing it, your company, that might benefit the employees or perhaps the company itself better?
we, considering instead of tying a profit sharing plan to salary tie, a percentage, of business a person would participate and bring into the company.
pay them, based on the percentage of business they bring, instead of based on their salary.
the re ,
When you say bring in, do you mean that they negotiated with people come in and, ask for your support?
not necessarily.
it can be in house people who help you handle X amount of dollars.
Even though they didn't bring it in, they help it once it's there.
marketing people,
we have financial planners,
we have, staff secretaries and administrative assistants,
these secretaries and administrative assistants, if we don't have their cooperation and they're not participating in the profit of the company, can get very dissatisfied very quickly.
we're thinking about paying them, instead of a percentage on salary, paying them a percentage on the business they handle.
administrative assistant that would handle two million dollars worth of business is a lot more valuable than a person that handles a hundred thousand dollars worth of business.
might not be necessarily because he did a good or bad job,
it might be whether the locality there, those people want that kind of support.
the thing is that they give support to the financial planner that they're the assistant to, or that they usually have several people they report to they work
together with
it encourages them not to, complain when they realize that they get a part action based on their efforts and not based on being sitting back saying, make me do it.
we don't want anybody around here that says make me do it.
I don't think
I think most people want to be, lack of better they want to be self employed,
they don't want to take the risk.
In other words, they like to control their own future,
they also want to be somewhat content to go and come as they please
That's true.
without some real strict adherence,
that's what we have.
I'm in,
like I said, I'm in Minneapolis
the big thing up here, of course, is the twins.
I imagine you can't escape it .
pretty pervasive.
It kind of goes into about all aspects of society I think up here.
I don't know how much of the World Series you caught last year,
that was a lot of fun (( )) .
of course, it was fun for you .
to be honest with you, I'm not from Minneapolis.
In fact, I've only been up here a few months
I'm going back at the end of next month.
Orlando, Florida.
I'm not exactly a real Twins fan from birth or anything.
I was born and raised near Miami and, spent the
last twenty years in Dallas
where the Rangers played.
for the
(( )) .
last, I've been in San Francisco where there are two teams. The Oakland A s and the San Francisco Giants.
honestly, do my duty and watch the sports on,
the newscasts
that's about all the exposure I have to sports.
I haven't followed it real closely at all. except like I said, last year when the World Series rolled around, follow that pretty religiously.
Went out into the bars,
drank a beer, watched the game, had time that way.
I guess the, San Francisco Giants and the Oakland A s were the leading teams a couple of years ago.
Is that right?
I th ,
I don't know.
That's sort of what I gather.
I don't know.
What is the prognosis for, this year?
real good as far as I can tell.
People are pretty excited about it.
assume that means good for the Minnesota ,
Sorry about that,
as far as the Twins are concerned, it seems to be real good.
my roommate went and saw them play on their season opener a couple of nights ago
won that one seven to one,
that's pretty good I guess.
It looks like they'll be doing pretty well.
Are you still there?
Yep .
I heard some noise on the line.
Didn't know what happened.
I think a train went by.
All right.
I know a train went by,
I don't know what the noise was
I think it probably was train.
I don't know.
I don't even know, who has been winning as far as the, San Francisco Giants and the Oakland A s
I think they both won their opener.
I, sort of gathered that in my, subliminal memory.
. maybe that good tidings season coming up.
I've got a friend that's living in San Francisco right now.
he's doing the same thing I'm doing which is, basically, an internship.
both doctoral students
doing his with I B M
I'm doing mine with Honeywell.
think he kind of follows the sports
I think he's mentioned the Oakland A s a couple of times.
he may have watched them and seemed to think that they were pretty good.
I guess they are different leagues.
Is that right?
The A s?
As far as I know,
(( Yeah )) .
in the major leagues, I guess there is a couple of different divisions
of course, there's the minors.
I don't know.
guess I'm one of those people that if I really made a concentrated effort, I could really probably get into baseball.
I was talking to my roommate a couple of nights ago, right after that game,
he offered, to take me to one of the games because, apparently, for the home games.
the thing is, there's like eighty six home games per year.
there's way that you can ever use them all.
Eighty six?
Eighty six.
I was amazed to hear that.
that's just the home games
thought it was a mistake
he goes no (( )) .
they must play every day then.
Well just about,
I mean eighty six times two
is a hundred sixty.
that's almost,
over five months worth.
That's a lot of baseball.
Even if they play every day, that's over five months worth.
consider it, the season starts,
the season started about a week and a half ago
it ends with the World Series which usually takes place, I believe, in December or January.
I think so.
It did last year, didn't it?
was it November?
That was the Super Bowl.
Maybe it was November I'm thinking about.
I know it was doggone cold up here.
I don't feel so bad.
I think don't know all that much more than I do about baseball .
I know for sure it was,
I know it was after September.
Because that's when I got up here.
I see,
it was at least two months after I got up here.
okay (( )) .
it had to be November anyway.
know, the Super Bowl,
What would you rather have?
you want salary too plus what?
What's most important to you?
as far as tangible benefits go I would say that, health insurance of all forms is probably my next most important concern.
I feel that a company that can provide good health benefits such as health care, dental and vision
as well as good long term and short term disability plans, goes a long way toward satisfying my needs.
I'll tell you.
I think that is the most important thing .
not working right at the moment
the company that I did work for
I had health benefits. dental, vision, all that, pension plan,
now I don't have that, although I do have a pension that I'm drawing from them which, thank God, I had.
I think those medical benefits are the most important.
really don't realize how important they are until you find yourself on the other side of the fence without them and having to cover your own medical
you can quickly see where they become a very important part of compensation package.
I should knock on wood.
I haven't, had any serious health problems or anything.
I've only probably been to the doctor a couple of times since I left work
it was only for a cold,
they can't really do anything for you anyhow,
you might as well not even go .
they look at you, you're still breathing, so,
right .
you've got a cold.
Go home and take, liquids and, rest.
that is definitely, the most important.
pension, I guess, is next.
thank God that I had one.
I don't know what happened to the salary employees when, the company went bankrupt
I was union,
mine was being put into trust fund,
I don't know if they ever got anything or if they lost all of theirs
I suspect that it just disappeared.
that's what I was thinking too.
I really feel sorry for all those people that spent all that time there,
what company do you work for?
I work for a little start up company here in Pittsburgh called Trans Ark.
Have you heard of them?
we do, distributive system software
for Unix based workstations
worked for a trucking company P I E, nation wide.
You probably heard of that .
In fact, my mom drives trucks
does she really?
how about that.
I see,
after the merger, you see a lot of Ryder PIE stuff on the road.
you did.
Ryder get out of the business?
Is that what happened or?
Ryder and P I E went together
that ended it .
So that the merger pretty much ended the whole thing.
It really did.
started, I think, a little bit before that
when P I E Ryder went together, why that was downhill from then on,
problem with that is, when you leave a job, you can continue your benefits for some (( finite )) period of time.
the company goes bankrupt, just cut off completely
you're responsible for your own.
that's exceedingly expensive.
it was over three hundred fifty dollars a month if we wanted to continue our own benefits.
We could do that for eighteen months.
three hundred and fifty dollars a month.
that's terrible.
It's definitely excessive.
jobs aren't that hard to find, to get another one that does pay your benefits,
a lot of them that,
if you do get a job, they don't pay benefits.
they're starting cut back. Especially start ups.
I know here at Trans Ark, health care
that's it.
there's no dental or vision.
short term disability policy a ninety day policy
there is no long term disability policy.
at least in the case of this particular company, they tend to scrimp a little bit there.
of course, they can use the excuse
we're start up.
. what's happening is the, disability plan,
so many people are lying about their things.
there's been big articles in the paper about that.
they claim a back injury
someone goes out and spies on them
they're lifting refrigerators into trucks and
and everything else,
I don't know what's happening and what's going to happen.
that certainly doesn't help matters any.
get people who are willing to put their neck on the line to get these additional benefits,
You want to go first .
get as much exercise should as, or as I would like to, these days.
seems to be to easy to get busy with other things.
I have, in the past, jogged and, and run,
January and every September, I start out again
it tapers off .
what about you?
I do a lot of exercise.
Right now, I'm into jazzercise, which I absolutely love.
I started about two years ago because I gained some weight over the past few years
I wanted to get it back off
I was going through a divorce
I just found that running really made me feel good.
Got out a lot of aggression.
I went to the gym every day
I ran on the treadmill and rode the bike
I felt really good.
I needed to do it
it was really helpful at the time.
when I do those things, they're boring.
I would rather be outside then in the gym doing this in one place.
I just recently discovered jazzercise, about two months ago.
I'm getting to be a good dancer from it
I'm just feeling really good.
I love the class,
it's real challenging,
I'm really into that,
I really like that a lot.
that's related to aerobic, (( )) ,
it's with dance steps.
It's an aerobic exercise
it's an hour straight.
I feel like I'm not just exercising.
Because I'm dancing
getting much better.
My stamina is getting great for the dance floor
it's just,
there's a lot of positive things with it,
Now that's inside again,
It is inside
been doing a lot of bike riding outside with the nice weather we've been having
I just enjoy that much more too than inside.
you like to do it other people.
like jazzercise would be?
I have a thirteen year old daughter
we go bike riding
it's nice.
We get
to spend some time together rather than I go to the gym while she does her homework.
I've enjoyed that part of it.
at the gym, even in the class, I,
it's not really a group where you chat a lot.
Everybody's on their way to someplace
I do
have one friend who goes occasionally
basically, I do it by myself in a group of maybe forty
still other people there same thing.
It's more motivating that way, I think.
In terms of motivation and incentive,
You could get a tape probably and do it at home in front of the T V
i ,
you probably wouldn't.
that makes a difference doesn't it?
one thing,
I have run and jogged,
I've always enjoyed doing it by myself
kno ,
not with the sense that it was, chore or something that I was having to do,
really enjoyed just the activity
I write software, as far as the job
getting out and being active, helps out.
(( The, th ,
it's ))
I can see it'll be a good break.
(( the )) change of pace and just
getting out and around
I find that I can often,
often, when I get around to doing it, then feel better when I get back to work
also my subconscious is working on things while I'm working
go back
I've got new ideas,
(( still )) .
I think you do.
You feel very good after you exercise.
I think
it's worth making the time for yourself.
You owe it to yourself
I think you do accomplish more after that.
I think that it's just is good for your self esteem, for everything because when you look better, you feel better
it's just,
I think it's well worth it.
I just demand that time for myself.
I've learned to do that
just benefits you all around.
a good term, the time for yourself.
That you've just got to
You have to.
you've (( just got to prior , ))
there's always more things to do.
There is always things that you can make priority to it
don't demand a lot for myself
I just feel entitled to it
I take it ,
done any jogging?
I tell you, you said you did on the bike and on the treadmill the, club.
I've done some walking with friends in the past.
I find that when you do that, you do more chatting than you do
that's not really beneficial,
I don't have time like that
I spend enough time chatting around everywhere, .
read any good books lately? .
read, several good books lately.
lot of them related to, business and financial matters since that's what I do for a living.
How about yourself?
I'm in graduate school
I read a lot of books
I don't know if I consider very many of them good .
I haven't read a book for enjoyment since, I guess, around Christmas.
I several books for Christmas
at Christmas break I read, SARUM by, a fellow named Rutherford.
it's the history of,
it's sort of fiction about, the Salisbury area England.
really enjoyed that book a lot.
he's not quite as good as, Michener or the other historical writers.
did this job well,
that sounds good.
you have much chance to read just pleasure or mostly for business?
I read for pleasure some also.
I read a book recently called IRON JOHN.
Have you seen that by Bly?
I don't think I have seen it.
it's a book about,
Greek gods and, and Greek, mythology
as well as, man and interacting with other men and a book about, men and how they mature through life.
how they deal with life itself .
I think I have heard about that.
all revolved around, mythology.
as far as, traditions from, other cultures and our culture.
And how we, interact with one another.
that sounds great.
it have something to mention about, sort of, cultural rituals manhood?
I have heard of that.
I have, someone suggested that I read it.
Is it IRON JOHN?
By Bly,
B L Y, I believe it is.
B L Y?
it's a very interesting book.
what are your favorite,
do you have a favorite subject to read, whether it be science fiction history
it depends again if we're talking about ,
I read a lot of religious books.
just because I have an interest in that area.
I read a lot of books in the area of, psychology and self help type, materials.
always trying to understand people
better and understand myself in relation to other people and try to understand where the people are coming from because I'm in a people business.
my work is my hobby .
enjoy it.
sounds great .
who is your, favorite religious author?
I don't know if I have a favorite
religious author.
I would have to say that, some of the ones that consistently put out good materials,
difficult because one person might write one book extremely well and some other ones might not write as well.
I had to stop here and think a second.
One of the ones that I've read recently that I've read several of his books
I thought that each one of his books were good.
He's the man out of San Antonio.
Max Lucado?
Max Lucado.
Max consistently writes good books.
he's a great man.
I've met him several times.
I know him,
(( ))
there's other authors also good books from time to time, but not consistently put out the materials all the time .
I'd say another, which is a local writer here in Plano, is,
I'm trying to think of his name.
He's with the Bible church.
that is,
, I see his name
I can't,
I see him
I can't see his name .
talks about, he talks about a lot of different topics
I guess its recording.
what kind of hobbies do you have?
Do you sing or knit or anything?
do cross stitch
I enjoy reading and playing softball.
started knitting awhile ago,
I knitted
I didn't what the stitch is called.
I just had this, piece of yarn
I wanted to start something
I remembered something I learned I think when I was five years old
I kept doing that,
now I have a little blanket
that's all I've done.
I know that I learned how to knit one time and, made a few things
I haven't done it in so long that I probably wouldn't remember how .
Do you make sweaters and things or just blankets?
if I remember I think we made some, Christmas stockings,
you could make granny squares or whatever,
and sew them together and make Christmas stockings and maybe some slippers or something like that.
I see.
Nothing as big as a blanket.
I know that my husband's grandmother does a lot of that.
she makes a lot of afghans and all that kind of stuff
I probably won't make anything beyond this blanket .
I don't know why.
It's just too time consuming.
do you have any other hobbies?
I like to sing.
I've been trying to get some wedding gigs and things like that.
that's good.
right now my actual job is a news reporter.
if I could do anything I wanted to do, it would be to sing professionally.
are you on the T V then?
I'm in,
I work for channel six in Waco.
I do little news reports and things.
It's not as exciting as it ,
as it sounds.
you don't have too much time for hobbies?
not much,
my day is usually pretty full.
My schedule is like from nine to five thirty,
I could be at work from anytime, from nine until nine at night or ten or whatever,
it's hard to make plans much less, have a hobby.
even if I had a hobby like knitting or something and I wanted to take it to work, I'd probably never get to it.
What do you do?
I'm a housewife.
unless the kids are asleep I don't much done either .
I've made a, few things, cross stitch things.
I really enjoy doing that.
I made, stockings for both my children and a Christmas tree shirt and that,
type of thing,
it just takes a long time to get it done
once you've done something like that it kind of makes you feel good, to,
to see it.
mine to my boyfriend
he was like, you didn't make that.
Really? .
it looks, halfway decent
first thing I did
I guess you can make baby blankets that wouldn't take as long .
How many children do you have?
I hear them in the background (( there )) .
All right,
that's a hobby in itself.
Not (( quite )) .
A job in itself.
It's a fulltime job,
Right now I was just sitting here watching T V,
I was getting ready to fall asleep.
have you sang at any weddings yet?
I sang at one last summer.
it was my first wedding.
I've done, little commercials and background singing
I sang all through college and things like that
I really haven't done anything really, professional per se.
I did one wedding last year
I just now got some that say,
what does it say, a song makes beautiful wedding or something,
I've been passing them out to different wedding shops,
when someone comes in,
that's a good place,
might ask about it.
This one woman even wanted me to bring my tape in because I have a demo tape, if any one wants to listen.
she wanted me to bring it in,
she's going to play it on Saturday
that would be great,
if someone came and heard it, and they were like, I want that voice,
that's good.
I haven't got any calls, yet
I only just put them out this week
hopefully I'll get some calls in. Especially now since it's spring
it's the wedding season, I guess.
that's true.
Make your hobby into a business, that would be pretty good,
that would be great.
Then I could be getting paid for something I love to do.
Not that I don't like reporting,
I'd love it.
Did you have training in singing when you were,
younger then
had, formal training.
I've just been singing every chance I get.
I try,
Choirs and that kind of stuff?
in school
when I was at U T, I was in a group called Ensemble One oh Nine, just twelve singers
we did, little conventions and, like dinner parties and things like that.
Sing pop music.
that's nice.
that's what got me really, really interested in it.
I'm trying to be too, at the same time.
not just give up your job and jump right into it .
My parents would have a fit probably.
I think,
I have a call
I do have a call,
hold on one second.
that's my mother on the other line,
I need to go,
I think we are suppose to talk for ten minutes
are we suppose to hear a beep or anything?
I don't know,
I've only done this one other time
I thought that the man told me five minutes.
my mother said ten minutes
I don't know.
it was nice talking to you
It was nice talking to you, too,
good luck with your singing.
good luck with your hobbies .
you want to start by telling me what camping is to you.
Do you backpack or hike
a little bit,
overly strenuous.
the majority of my camping experience is, a tent by the lake type situation or, maybe a canoe trip or something like that.
I've never done a canoe trip.
That sounds interesting.
we've had a lot of fun,
moved to Dallas about five years ago
we've made three different trips since I've been here. of varying degrees, of difficulty.
last one we did, a canoe trip in Arkansas
the river up about three feet
it was pretty challenging.
I imagine.
as far as the camping part of that, we just drag along all our tents and sleeping bags and, a clearing in the woods and go for it.
they'll fit in the canoe
you go for days at a time.
it's the,
particular one was a two day trip
a outfitter
they haul you up to the headwaters, come down about halfway and then you spend the night
the second day head on down pool at the end of the river.
that sounds like fun .
really is.
the camping I grew up with was like tents and Coleman stove type.
that just out in the woods,
grew up water skiing.
I was, from California,
we would go up to the Sacramento, river sloughs, the delta there,
you just pick a campground on the river,
if it got, over a hundred and ten degrees you went over the levee and jumped in the water.
cooled off,
when I got married, my husband had always backpacked.
we did that,
I guess we haven't done it since my kids were born about three years ago.
that was a new experience for me
I enjoyed it.
I like being able to go back into the mountains,
I bet,
or, where the trail didn't necessarily lead, and where you couldn't necessarily, pitch a tent .
was interesting.
have always wanted to do some white water rafting
your canoeing kind of made me think of that.
that's always been our next step.
little group of friends here, we've been kind of getting married off and what not
Don't let that stop you .
just puts a damper on things for a little while.
I know.
starting to get everybody back together.
we'd like to do a float trip down, like Big Bend area or something like that.
you haven't done that before.
we haven't made that trip yet.
My parents, were sailing, this last year down off, Costa Rica
they took about two weeks and went into,
I don't even know the name of the river there,
they went white water rafting
Mom said it was absolutely just a wonderful experience.
She said it was truly incredible.
I'll bet,
there's that sense of it, you're kind of scared, that risk of what could happen and then the thrill of, the excitement of doing it,
do you have anything planned for this summer?
not really just yet.
do have, a little bit of property,
I grew up in South Dakota,
I've got a piece of property in Minnesota that is completely undeveloped as of yet.
a little lake up there
a group of friends that went to college with, got together
we basically own all the land around this little lake, there,
it's divided up into ten lots.
I imagine.
we've got a private lake,
it's completely undeveloped at this point,
that's a possibility.
the weather is typically always nice up there in the summertime.
it's about two hours north of Minneapolis.
sounds good.
in fact,
I got married last summer
we ended up there for a couple days, on our honeymoon.
We kind of took, a tour of the United States for about a week,
That sounds,
and, up through that area.
my wife's real excited about it,
going to hope to get up there sometime early eno ,
last year it was the end of July
it was a little too late for the fish
hopefully get up there early enough get into fish and, the, the good weather and what not.
We've been wanting to start camping again this year too.
my oldest child is a girl, was born three years ago, three and a half.
I have a little one that just turned two
we are in the process of potty training.
I didn't want to go camping with diapers,
at a time when they're afraid of their shadow all they need is, some skunk or something to rub up the outside of the tent,
they'd be awake all night.
That's right.
I think with him almost potty trained and, she's not afraid of her shadow anymore, hoping and crossing my fingers that we'll be able to go, this summer, even if it's like over to Rio Dosa for a couple of days,
or something to get them used to it and get them started, with little back packs of their own,
and, things like that.
You bet,
we'll that,
there's a lot of places with, nature trails,
things like that where they could learn a lot, too.
that's true.
it's like, this is what, a pheasant looks like,
now we'll go look for one.
I would need that before I could teach them .
might learn something that way,
an awful lot of things set up, just you want to do.
you say it can be, a water ski trip, or fishing trip or just a sightseeing, bird watching, with a camera type of thing
there's a lot of different opportunities for things like that.
It's a lot of fun,
it really is.
I've kind of gotten out of the habit of doing this.
It's been down this weekend.
I haven't tried,
this is,
I haven't called in a couple of days,
education in public schools.
I have a son who's graduating, in May,
there's some interesting problems of challenge the kids today.
I have some real hang ups.
I think that, kid's not ambitious, he can sure get lost.
In the school systems?
That's right.
What school system does he go to?
In North Garland,
he goes t ,
What school system are you familiar with?
my children go to Garland,
I teach in Dallas.
Y ,
I have a daughter that's
my husband teaches with Plano.
in the I B program at Garland.
In the what?
In the,
are you familiar with the International Baccalaureate program.
do your kids go to Garland High, you said?
they're still in elementary.
there's a,
she went from Austin Academy when it opened up,
over North Garland for ninth grade.
at North Garland, difficulty I see with the education system you can get some masses,
unless, if the kid's really dedicated, it seems like they do all right.
if your child is just pressing along,
I, I'm firmly convinced that teachers aren't being paid enough.
Would you, argue with that?
I'm definitely not,
are you kidding?
the thing that I don't see, and maybe you would take issue with it is that if there was an opportunity for teachers to teach year around.
I want that .
I think it would be better for the teachers and for the children, because we would do away with so much of the burn out that we have.
I know when you get the kids that have gone the summer being out of school, then it's like they've lost so much ground, we spend at least the first six weeks just backing up, reteaching what they had the year before.
get that?
we're starting pilot schools.
It's a ,
Dallas is doing it I know.
I think Plano, don't they have some,
Richardson's supposed to start some pilot schools, going to school year around.
investigated this by flying some people out from Dallas to observe some of the schools in California that already had it.
Does it work well out there?
it seems to,
one thing, it'll save us money, because we've got the buildings sitting there,
we might as well use them.
issue of air conditioning.
Isn't that an area of concern in the cost of air conditioning?
air conditioning, heating.
Isn't air conditioning less than heating, because we have to, just up
if we get in the thirties, we raise it up to the seventies,
that's forty degrees.
Isn't it less?
less degree days,
you're right.
it's not like the kids are going to go a lot longer,
if you go year around
there's not thirty days difference.
how do they do it?
Do they put, long,
do they put two or three week breaks between?
There's different ways to do it.
think going two six weeks having two, two weeks off, each after a two six weeks period is one way.
Is that,
what you've seen, is that the desirable way to do it?
I don't know, because I've never seen it in action.
you said you had some people from California.
I thought you,
the school system in Dallas has sent people there
to do that.
you didn't go.
I think I'd like it,
I know a lot of teachers that would like to try it.
other issue that I hear that the local commentator I listen to (( )) some the idea that the numbers of administration and the fact that the principal,
do you see that the principals aren't really in charge?
The principal's, hands are tied, by all the administrators,
I heard that in Dallas, it's one out of every three is actually in the classroom of the educators that were hired .
I had heard that one of the comments brought it,
It's just,
you don't even know who all your bosses are.
It's ridiculous.
Then why the,
the one they brought in, the new superintendent for Dallas schools, the admini ,
can't think of his name,
the idea
Marvin Edwards.
that he had suggested maybe they could reduce the number of administrators some of the people who were administrators saying, that's not what he was hired for.
they resented the fact that he would try to save some costs there.
he did, supposedly cut administrators,
what they've done is create other offices for those same people, and just renamed their jobs
and, opened up things.
One thing we've got going is called reading and initiative,
they've hired all these administrators in on that,
the other thing that bothers me is the amount of money to contest football, issue.
Pass or no fail, what is it?
No play.
I can't think of the name of the school,
No play.
in any event they kept arguing.
Carter High School.
they went to court,
i ,
guess sympathetic with the kids,
how much money did that cost Dallas to fight that in court.
all the things that Dallas fights, costs thousands, probably millions of dollars, I bet you.
just think of all all the lawyers you've kept employed,
I know.
psychologists and stuff.
That's right,
That's right.
all these other people are out running around.
I guess that's the only problem with jobs being relatively scarce,
you need to keep all these people employed,
we do not.
No ,
we need a little more of our tax money, like maybe,
We need more of the tax money to actually get down to the students, because it's pretty frustrating when you see you don't even have paper,
you're trying to ration it,
that's sad, when there's supposed to be what, one thousand, sixty five dollars, something like that, spent on each pupil.
(( )) .
I was thinking about
one thing that's wrong with schools is that we're not teaching to the children's modalities,
I think in nineteen, ninety three we're supposed to begin that.
a child is a visual learner, we're supposed to present him with all these visual things,
if he has to learn just by kinesthetic, we're supposed to teach whatever way that that child has to have it, learns the best way.
that's going to be quite a problem.
(( )) that's,
if we could do something like that I'm sure it would certainly help.
that's interesting,
how many administrators is that going to take?
I don't know,
no telling,
I don't know.
at nongraded schools.
They've had one in Gladewater for years and years and years.
If we could just let these kids go at their own rate.
I have children even,
teach Chapter One,
it's for kids that have fallen behind in their reading according to, I T B S scores.
some of the kids, really they shouldn't be in there,
not being challenged,
they're not being challenged in their home,
we always have to teach toward the middle of the road.
part of where my son would like to go to Rice,
I don't think he's,
difficulty is the people that get in are overachievers.
he's not an overachiever.
the same time, everybody can't go,
the question of how far should you take a kid in the motivation,
I'm not sure,
I think maybe there's too much responsibility put on the teachers to motivate these kids.
I had friend that was administrator in Richardson said if the parents read books, then the kids probably would read books.
that a lot of the schools I would think the kids you're talking to, question how much reading do those kids' parents do.
My children's parents aren't even there at night most of the time
to do anything with them.
that's the point, as I would say,
what makes,
there's a lot of problems.
I'm trying to think how much longer.
I had a conversation, week or so ago
we got carried away,
they cut,
it beeps in at ten minutes.
I know it,
I know it .
I went for a couple
I didn't know that there was even a cut off or anything.
another things that's wrong with schools,
this is big,
there's too much emphasis on test.
We're spending the first hour of every day teaching for the (( )) test at my school,
we're going to do that until at least the first part of May.
that's in the Garland schools,
the numbers,
have to do that because most everybody passes.
they're not in Dallas.
If you get graded on percent improvement.
we're not working with the same type of students
that most of these kids in Garland are.
unfortunately, tough,
that's a real challenge though.
what we're doing is we're turning these kids off to school even more than they are.
we're not teaching toward the test,
we're teaching,
I always objected,
it's like there's not a whole lot of, fun time like we used to have in school.
our principal says, I want every child to be on task all the time.
you can't do that as adults.
we're expecting kids to.
recess, play
we don't get that.
If they finish before their thirty minutes is up, then they can go out and play for maybe five or ten minutes, probably be the most.
we always got that,
didn't you?
our had that,
he an attention deficit disorder,
they were keeping him from recess
in reality one of those really tough situations.
I think the kids need some time to play.
(( )) you though that understand the problems get in change some education
I got some background noise there
I guess ...
was married, I used to play a lot of sports.
when I got married and had children and everything, it seems like I keep all my activity just chasing around fulfilling my obligations
I haven't done a lot of, exercise on purpose.
What about you?
it's funny,
this week,
yesterday I started exercising seriously.
This weekend I cleaned out my closets
a couple years ago I, too, got married.
I haven't have any children yet,
this weekend I cleaned out some closets
I found a bathing suit that I had bought.
Tried it on and decided I really did not like how it looked on me.
that can be awful.
yesterday I went to, a spa.
I belong to a private spa and went in got with a trainer
he checked body fat content
we set up a program for me to work on,
I went back tonight also.
that's good.
I've been two nights in a row
going to take it pretty seriously.
I'm going to start going every night just,
even if
tonight I only went for thirty minutes,
I at least did something.
Do you work out on,
is it the weight machines or aerobics or what is it?
Last night I did about thirty minutes of riding a bike and three different types of, weight lifting for my legs and,
and my hips
I did a hour of aerobics.
that was really tough .
I bet.
I was sore this morning when I got up,
then tonight I got into
it's sort of like an aerobics class
it's only thirty minutes
it's for your abdominals
your thighs, and your butt.
that was,
thirty minutes was definitely plenty.
Doesn't sound like low impact.
it was a lot of sweat
I've been trying to eat correctly also.
that's good.
are you moti ,
Have you started exercising at home
am undisciplined in the sense that I can't just go and do exercise,
I like to, play tennis and play racquetball
like to get exercise when I'm playing a game of some sort,
that's always been the way that I have kept myself in, the shape that I was satisfied with at least.
then I have given that up,
I would really like to start that again, because I am now, not in a position that I like myself.
I don't feel good
I get,
when you get out of shape and you don't,
you're easily tired
that has made me,
not the kind of person that could go to a spa
and work out,
I just,
if something like,
I have so many chores and so many
obligations every day for, to add another obligation
would make me feel stressed.
I wouldn't enjoy it.
if I have something, some team sport or some activity, then it's kind of like having fun,
you get some of the, good exercise and some of the desired results,
doing it for fun.
I really admire people who can go and work out
I don't,
a lot of people,
I have a girlfriend that goes for the social aspect of it
she walks around, talks to people
I don't really get into that.
Naturally I'm married
my husband goes a lot
we'll go just do what we want to do and then leave.
that's nice.
swimming part that like to get into as far as my ,
just aerobic activity
they say that swimming is real good,
I'd like to try that as well.
that's probably something you could do,
It is kind,
It is family,
it's fun.
It's a fun thing
kids enjoy that all.
also, the nice thing about belonging to a club is that you can have some of the relaxation, like saunas, or
hot Jacuzzis or whatever,
they have that it fun and stuff,
you can relax that way,
afterwards and things.
I agree .
I guess it's getting late.
I should take off,
I appreciate that,
that motivate me .
Think someone can do it.
Maybe I should start thinking about it again.
try it
maybe just exercise at home.
I bought a tape,
I'm going to try doing that.
I bought one,
I went to the,
I bought the low impact first.
I thought,
I shouldn't out of the blue just jump in.
that's me.
I haven't done it.
I'm going to try it.
you have a good night.
Thanks a lot.
We'll see you.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
what do you think about our involvement in the Middle East?
I think it's good.
I hope that we, get a chance to, promote peace out there, because I think without peace we're not going to get stable oil prices,
really like to see stability in that area, because I'm always afraid that's where another big war is going to start. Not that Desert Storm was a small one.
. yeah
that's probably true.
suspect that if any world war is coming at this point in time, they're going to come from there, I would think, anyway.
Just seems to be that that's the most unstable part of the world, as far as I can tell.
I saw, just recently, where, the U S is supposedly going to be, putting pressure on all the, the Israelis, supposedly, to come to a bargaining table to,
I heard that the Israelis at least mentioned about giving up some of the Golan Heights.
That would be interesting because I'm I'm Jewish
I'm actually sort of not really a Zionist per se,
lot of friends, who are sort of adamant, Israel,
it's his right,
do whatever they want.
I think they've been sort of hard nosed about the entire thing.
in some sense, may be right.
They be better if they give up just a little bit to settle things down.
I guess it's one of those things that, if it's going to really promote a lasting peace, if there is not going to be a peace,
then, then is it worth it at all.
I could the way,
the only way to think about it is they won,
they sort of took over the,
they're one of the only countries in history that has been told that they have to give back what they took in a war, which they didn't start, basically,
know what to do about it .
I think in general the region is really in bad shape .
Do you think the U S is going to wind up keeping, military bases over there?
there a plan now to make a command center there or something?
haven't heard that.
I watch C N N every once in a while,
haven't specifically heard anything about that.
I just heard something
there's some central command post in Tampa , I think that they now want to move to somewhere in the Middle East.
there was, a small country or small city, I think, not actually in Saudi Arabia or anything, but a little bit off to the, east of it, I think.
they want to keep something over there, so that they don't have to,
sort of so they don't have to move troops out so quickly or something.
I'm not quite sure exactly why they want to do it.
they want to keep some sort of central command post there.
What I thought was interesting is that, apparently the formal cease fire has not actually been signed yet.
That's true.
then I guess there's still the possibility that, hostilities with, U S troops could still break out.
they claim that's why we're still there.
why only,
you note it's a small number of people have actually come back yet.
I think that's actually the scariest part, because happening in Iraq right now, in itself, it being so crazy there.
I have no idea,
what do you know,
just to imagine that one day they're just going to turn around and someone is going to say, We don't like you, and start attacking again,
it's going to be worse.
I don't know.
Do you have relatives over in Israel?
I don't.
I have some friends in Israel,
coincidently my wife is Syrian.
I am,
the Middle East peace talks at home.
I'm just sort of putting away some things from dinner now
in the background.
she has sort of friends and family in Saudi Arabia, who are some friends in Saudi Arabia.
I have some friends in Israel.
talk a bit about it,
we try and keep it out of the home life.
Do you,
does she ever want to go back to Syria?
. No,
I think it's, for her not really relevant, because she is second generation American,
Her parents who were born here would like to go see it, though, I think.
They would like to go to Syria,
they recognize that Syria's not the place that one wants to visit
right about now.
No .
something about the place makes it quite enjoyable.
Do you ever want to go over to Israel?
actually been there.
I was there a couple of years ago, when it wasn't, sort of dangerous to be out there, I guess.
like it
I would never live there.
I think I'm too Americanized and, sort of have invested in sort of, the easy life.
I do like the food.
if that, if that amounts for anything.
who ,
do you have a lot of Kosher foods there at your house?
my house is Kosher,
it turns out that one of the strangest things Israel is that most folks don't realize that for all the food people think of as sort of, Jewish food and so forth.
in general it really isn't the food that is eaten in Israel.
you typically think of it, like bagels,
bagels and lox.
Turns out, you don't really find bagels in Israel.
What you find is sort of Middle Eastern foods.
The same foods that you find in, Syria and Egypt and everything else.
(( )) Have you ever had those?
Kish ki's, or knishes .
see a lot of,
that's basically Eastern European Jewish food.
very different.
I was very amazed when I sort of figured out for myself. That everything I grew up with really wasn't Israeli.
It was more Jewish,
I got you.
it is very strange.
Still get your Passover Matzi and all that,
starts tomorrow night.
That's what I'm making,
that's what I'm doing now.
I'm making dinner.
a nice Jewish girl for many years up in Chicago,
I was the only Goyim all the Seder dinners and everything,
I used to have to go with pocketful of change to buy all this bread the kids would see me .
Bought up all the bread from .
(( )) .
That's good.
you've really got a handle on this stuff I've noticed.
Got the vocabulary down and everything.
just, just enough to get by .
that makes you real good.
we have the reverse situation.
Turned out that, most of my friends aren't Jewish,
my wife's not.
sort of, do a lot of these things,
is tomorrow night.
this is a rare exception.
There are going to be sixteen people at my house tomorrow night, which,
and five of them will be Jewish.
years ago we had a Seder,
we had sixteen people each night.
Sixteen is the magic number for us.
Wow .
I was the only Jew both nights.
really .
which to me is wonderful, because it means that people who never would get to see this, get to see it.
my view is, Passover should sort of be,
in, in my mind Passover is sort of a generic holiday anyway, because sort of predates Christ.
they had the,
matter of fact I just watched Charles Heston weekend in the TEN COMMANDMENTS.
I caught the end of that.
Did you?
every year, I try and catch that.
That's what always amazes me,
my wife and I always sort of bring this up about her being Syrian, and my being Jewish,
We look alike,
we act alike,
we sound alike,
not totally alike
it's amazing to think that people in the Middle East sort of all hate each other.
to me it's really,
intellectually kind of come to grips with all of that.
emotionally I have a real difficult time believing that people that believe in God and love, not war and to forgive can't get together.
I mea ,
I know that the problems are so deep.
even within the Muslim, religions, different sects, they can't get together.
the part that I find really strange.
I sort of understand somewhat.
knowing the history I understand that, the hatred of the Muslims for, the Israelis or whatever,
I can sort of handle that
I sort of think about the Muslims sort of running around have jihad against themselves.
that seems really weird.
Catholics and the Protestants up in Ireland.
I don't,
never understand it.
My view is look, what did you ever do to me.
Didn't hurt me, at the moment.
don't know.
something about,
there's a poem somewhere.
I don't know if you've ever seen it or not,
Everything I Ever Wanted to Know I Learned in Kindergarten.
In this,
it talks about how, if we could just all get toge ,
when we were young everything was great because we all went to class together,
in the mi ,
we all had snack time together,
we all took naps
we all held hands and hugged,
that's what kindergarten was like,
wouldn't it be nice we could solve all our problems by just sort of getting together and everyone in the world sat down and took a nap together.
Woke up and had snack time, and then hugged each other as we left.
John Lennon, type.
. I wonder if he secretly did that ...
(( Okay )) .
Are you a T I er,
I'm not.
that's great.
my daughter talked to a student.
in general most people doing this are T I ers,
I guess customers too,
I think a great number of students who got word of it and participated in general and voiced who heard about the program.
T I s got, a lot of advances in it really.
hopefully this will turn out to be a good program for us.
We sure need, the business.
Current Events.
got the question you can go first there, since I called.
I rely primarily on, newspaper combined with television.
you're the opposite of me.
I drive an hour each way to work
if I just use time
not say one, which quality is the best,
I guess, that would be two hours roughly of talk shows and news on radio
newspapers and T V would be tied after that because maybe I'll catch evening news, like ten o'clock on T V
that's a half an hour roughly the same with newspaper.
I really,
of course, in a different part of the country,
really listen to a lot of the talk shows, I don't mean the gossip ones,
there's a lot
on the weekends when I do chores, or whatever,
I'm a radio hound I guess,
I take the radio with me when I'm working on my car, the lawn or whatever,
turn on,
they have everything from lawn work, lawyers, news, veterinarians, all kinds of items,
a real radio buff, especially when I'm doing chores.
That's rather interesting.
I find it surprising. Because a lot of times, it, here,
I'll talk to some people here
I'll mention some talk host
I'll expect them to have an opinion on why I don't like him and don't listen,
they don't even know,
what the guys name is, Bruce Williams who does financial work all over the United States.
Most people haven't heard of Bruce Williams.
You probably haven't either unless you're a radio buff.
have to say I haven't either.
He is in New Jersey and is entrepreneur and kind of a self made millionaire.
he has it,
it's five seventy here,
I'm trying to,
it's on Cliff,
I don't know what the,
he's on all stations.
You might remember the name Bruce Williams,
is again, national and talks about a lot of financial things.
the here, I just get a kick out of,
we do a lot of gardening here,
we have an excellent gardener here,
has three hours on Sunday and three hours on Saturday.
Of course that's not exactly current events.
I am kind of a radio buff.
I listen to the radio, probably five or six hours a week,
almost inevitably to a station that is a classical, station here (( )) ,
For music?
for music purposes.
We don't use the radio as a wake up,
we have a television connected to a, electronic alarm,
system that kicks in,
it comes on with C N N in the morning.
That's good.
wake up to television news and, shower and dress, and whatever to that,
because of the fact that my wife and I ride to work together, in a car,
that's good.
chat at each other rather something else.
occasionally what we'll each do depending on whoever is driving is have the newspaper sort of on our lap on the way the car,
we have the advantage of being able to, read and drive although there seems to be, from what I've seen on the freeway recently that a fair number of people are reading and driving .
My wife always wonders about that
she says, look at that person he's driving and reading at the same time .
rely heavily, I think, on a combination two.
I also, use, NEWSWEEK magazine.
we tend to alternate between NEWSWEEK and TIME and whatever happens to be the,
the, news magazine of the year for us.
I read sporadically of commentary and a couple of other, trade magazines, such as that, where I might read the, the occasional social and even current event commentaries, everything as diverse as A C M to, other tabloids I get.
I guess I use about eighty percent written, is probably my input and twenty percent, television.
(( Go ahead )) ,
I think I respect from a journalistic perspective current events.
I've always said that really not interesting unless it's three weeks old and found its way into a news weekly headline.
Good point.
That's a good point.
other than that it was a (( )) at best.
It comes and goes.
we're probably not thrilled with our only newspaper that we have in Raleigh.
are other,
I'm not sure what you would call them, the small, competing independent sort of newspapers.
Little small weekly things,
there's only one daily, called the NEWS AND OBSERVER, fondly referred to here by some as the, sometimes the Noise and Observer.
it depends.
It, has decent national coverage, but has an extremely focused political coverage, probably steeped in,
Local you mean?
the southern history and the fact that this is a Democratic State.
consequently everything is filtered through that, Republican Democratic sort of,
glass, almost unnecessarily
Don't they have city council meetings and all that.
Are you into any of that going on in the city council school boards and all that?
We have that addition to our paper.
that is,
as a matter of fact they update it once a week with a special section,
pay it sort of glancing nod.
We, have a very good friend who is, tapped into the city planning structure. our developer architect friend
(( Okay ))
, you get it from people then.
I think we find out what's happening in the city, on a fairly frequent basis, gin and tonic sort of thing.
that probably gives us a better insight as to the city of Raleigh the paper would have anyway.
My wife and I, as mentioned,
the question was, do you get it from people too.
I can say the same thing you do that, my wife she reads the paper from front to back
she'll tell me some stuff
she'll always get mad and say, you didn't read the,
I always read the sports,
what am I thinking of, the commentaries,
I can't even think of what it is offhand,
she's always reading something,
she says, why haven't you read that.
I say, I never have time to read it like you do.
I always get a lot of my information from the,
newspaper through her.
I guess we do get it from people too.
you mentioned C N N, of course I mentioned radio and the C N N T V news,
It's the same thing that's on the radio, word for word.
Is that right?
heard there was some stuff radio that was equivalent to C N N.
it is C N N exactly.
we have it here at work as a matter if fact, at T I.
We have it in the break area, C N N.
the reason I say that is on the radio they'll say look at this,
when I first heard C N N, it only started about, since the war, or right before that.
they would always say look at this,
there would be a pause,
would be music and stuff
I realized that it's the exact commentary that you have
on the, the news.
That didn't,
it's still good.
It's still,
you don't really miss anything.
I enjoy since the Gulf War listening to C N N radio too, as well as watching C N N on T V here at work.
I don't have C N N at home.
. Let me turn this radio off,
I'm at work right now believe it or not.
where was I,
go ahead,
we probably were listening to C N N fairly heavily before the war broadcasts began.
we almost live breathed it because during the war itself to the point where we began to sort of have household pact of lets turn the war off and get something done.
heard that,
almost an addition,
we could equate or relate relay well to some of the newspaper and television articles about the fact that people where having this problem from the events, and going on with their.
Right .
instead of the missiles and being glued to the tube or whatever.
because of that we began towards the middle of the war, I guess about two and a half or three weeks in, we began to restrict our news almost deliberately where we would, watch, fifteen minutes before, fifteen minutes after six our time which would be national news, or our local news.
We would watch C N N until six thirty, then we would watch, a rotating network news of A B C, C B S, N B C
sort of just rotated around the dial each night a different one.
we would watch the first fifteen minutes
we would turn the television off
we were sort of limiting or dieting ourselves news that way.
we would do a similar thing, at ten forty five because, C N N would be wrapping their hourly coverage up
we would get the local coverage,
I think the local coverage we would tend to watch the same station that have better state coverage rather than local coverage.
three of the networks here, on their local news,
you wish to listen at eleven o'clock you can find out who raped who, murdered who, or stole what.
from whom.
that was the sort of thing that I would say is the best ((
)) not news
unless there's some trend or something that says, this neighborhood has been hit forty seven times or whatever. sort of more a pattern news.
I never get home early enough for those five and six o'clock,
tell me about your home.
My home.
All right,
my home is about fifteen years old.
All right.
It's a two story house,
our first home,
it looks like it's going to be the last,
I think we're going to demolish it .
We've got two children
they have scraped the, plaster off the walls, with riding their little toys through it and stuff.
put dents in the tiles, just multitude of them,
even places,
past the dent stage,
we're talking some of it's been (( peeled )) away,
I don't know what they,
We talking (( )) dents in the holes.
dents in the (( hole )) ,
I understand,
a daughter.
We've got two,
one of them's eleven
one of them's seven
the carpet,
we need to replace the carpet.
it sounds like it's just the pits
it's not all that bad, (( I guess ))
they're just real hard on it.
Kids are hard on houses.
I can see why people wait until they get in high school or maybe junior high
they get another one.
we live in a mobile home
that's probably not typical America
I know there's a lot of them.
what we have,
it's all we can afford.
seems like we're always working on it, as I'm sure,
Because they're always,
it is with your house.
because they're always (( ruining )) something?
How old is your child?
just like yours, ours is always,
something else goes wrong always,
Some appliances breaking or something?
we had a couple plumbing problems,
who knows, it's always something with homes.
you said you were in Colorado Springs?
Are there a lot of trailers around there?
there are there's a big military constituency.
is that what you're in?
work for T I.
then that's why you're doing this then, isn't it?
What division are you in?
I'm not in T I.
I had a friend that had a roommate that worked for T I
she saw this come up on the computer screen, and ran it off. And passed it (( )) to the people that were interested.
It's not a hobby,
it's something to do.
I get to here about Texas again a bit and get to talk to people all over the country,
you know, that I've talked to someone in Maryland, I believe it was.
I know, I've been talking to people in Ohio, and, Virginia, and I think, California.
It's interesting, isn't it?
it is.
the gal I talked to in Maryland, didn't own a car,
she's never traveled anywhere,
she's never been anywhere,
I talked about one of the biggest problems in the United States being our roads,
she didn't understand.
She doesn't drive.
How does she get to work?
she, lives on campus,
she's a college student.
Buses public transportation.
I had a re ,
parents live by the public transportation.
I wish we could down here.
it would be nice
I kind of like the freedom, too, don't you?
I tell you I'd sure like to be able to get on a bus or something and get to work,
if I did it, it would take me an hour and fifteen minutes.
I would have to get on one and drive, or walk to a bu ,
there's one terminal close to us
they'd drive me to the main terminal here,
then, I'd have to go to downtown Dallas and then walk over couple blocks and get on another bus to go to my school.
If it's anything like,
that's too much.
Dallas always has been,
no one wants to be at downtown Dallas much.
there sure are a lot of people that work down there.
Is the crime rate still bad?
I went down there a couple, maybe three weeks ago for a trial,
all these people were standing up, that was, during the workday all along the streets,
just all around these vacant buildings, (( just )) a lot of vacant buildings,
they're just being demolished,
they stink
beer and wine bottles all over the place.
that's terrible.
Garland, how nice is it now,
it's been a while since I've been there.
I think it might be up to two hundred and fifty thousand.
It's gotten big.
it has.
I think when we moved here it was like a hundred and twenty, something like that.
I didn't realize, when I moved here, that it was a separate town from Dallas .
it is.
I know, now
I didn't.
Where you from?
I'm from Kilgore, Texas
it's in east,
I know where Kilgore is.
where you from?
originally from Lubbock.
Are you?
why did you move up to Colorado?
Seemed like the thing to do at the time.
it's real pretty up there.
I have a friend,
I love it,
in Denver.
the mountains.
I love the mountains,
What do you,
back to the topic,
it seems that, more and more people are not (( )) owning traditional homes these days.
They're not owning homes, period.
everyone says,
when I bought this several years ago when our local economy was good everyone said, no, no, you're crazy to buy a mobile home.
now it seems that, with the local economy bad and T I
(( strange )) it seems that,
It wasn't such a bad idea?
they're doing some back pedaling.
have you got, land?
I'm renting at the time,
I did that one year,
I lived with two other girls
we all taught.
it was a two bedroom,
we took turns,
the bedroom.
I got to where I decided I wanted to pay more rent and get a private bedroom.
we had two baths
it was just, the little bathroom, were the thing that really bothered me because I felt real closed in.
mobile homes have changed a lot probably since you had one.
That was in the seventies.
it has a traditional (( V top )) ,
I'm sorry.
it's nine hundred and eighty square foot.
What, two bedroom, one bath,
rooms are nice sized.
you can imagine nine hundred eighty square foot broke up into two bedrooms, one bath,
Have you got it under (( )) ?
Are you required to by law?
We were down here.
don't know whether it is or not.
It was already setup when we bought it.
I bet it's not bad.
it's wood sided it has sheetrock everywhere,
it's quieter than you remember mobile homes to be.
how much is yours?
When we bought ours we were paying three hundred twenty nine dollars.
our payments are like two twenty.
For how many years?
(( )) it was still a lot cheaper,
it was still a lot cheaper than what we gave because ours is thirty years,
we bought one of the cheapest houses, a tract house.
A mobile home's a heck of a lot cheaper,
whenever we got ours we picked it up used, three or four years used,
Which probably didn't make much difference.
it did.
(( have a )) (( )) in it.
what I meant, not in quality,
what I meant was,
In the price.
four years equity costs five hundred dollars.
That sounds good.
there's not that much time left on the loan
if the economy gets better, are you going to get
I, don't know.
to tell you the truth right now it feels kind of comfy to have our mobile home and have it so close to paid for.
it's like me to pickup and move is easy.
you wouldn't take that mobile home,
You would?
It would be cheaper to move that than buy another one.
talk about the deal I got, it would be cheaper.
especially if it were a paid move or something.
there's some paid moves occasionally.
T I would pay to move you?
I don't know
they did,
moved up here,
they might want to move away.
how many years you been up there?
six or seven.
Do you snow ski?
mostly I just , love walking in the mountains, driving in the mountains.
It's real pretty.
I went rock climbing one time.
that's exciting.
my friend talked me in that .
I'm a real, scaredy when it comes to heights
once we got on top of the rocks it was quite,
what kind of neat hobbies do you have?
I like gardening a lot,
I like to be outside,
I like gardening,
I wish I had a green thumb, though.
I've got a brown thumb.
That's what everything turns.
, is,
do you keep trying anyway?
I keep trying,
you just give up on it,
I, I bought some, plants from Michigan Bulb Company
they send them to you all ready alive.
I've never had any luck with their's.
these are going to croak too.
Since I've got cats, I decided to get some catnip.
Lots and lots of catnip,
still green,
it's been two days
I'm encouraged .
haven't good luck with that company,
I think some of it depends how long things stay in the mail, probably.
I've had get my money back from them and had better luck some of more expensive companies.
there's a,
Because they,
I don't know,
do you have Lowe's up there?
building, contra ,
building supplies place.
also have a garden shop
offer just as good a guarantee, if you buy it from them.
that's great,
our local stores offer any guarantee.
some of the,
the mail order ones that I've dealt with for roses and that, they offer the first Summer.
Which at least take off the first year, they're probably going to come up unless there's, a terrible freeze or something.
something like that.
I got a whole bunch of bulbs along with this stuff,
I'm going to wait on those.
they're bulbs for Spring or Fall?
probably Spring,
I don't much care about things like that.
make a little sort of greenhouse, a miniature greenhouse to put all this stuff in.
to keep me occupied,
I'll, buy some plastic and make a little house
watch the cats tear it up.
I don't know that,
do cats bother bulbs?
I think more the mice or other rodents.
just like to get in and dig.
I see
if you have fresh dirt, they'll ,
they love to dig.
I don't know what kind they are,
I've already forgotten,
just regular old flower seeds
I planted them
thrilled because they came up, nice green shoots coming up all over the place.
my cats got into it and started digging and that took care of that.
I have to hang these things high,
they can't get to them.
Especially the catnip.
How many cats do you have?
I just, put a, little fence around my yard, which is I suppose, technically illegal,
I had so many groundhogs last year that I think they'll let me get by with it,
got this one inch mesh
what I've noticed it's kept the cats out
I love it .
because like to get in and fertilize things too.
why would it be illegal?
because we have these tow ,
I live in a townhouse
all of our areas have associations that you have to get permission.
they want, privacy fences.
complains you're all right.
they do walking tours too,
at least, because I back up to, a hillside where the, wild animals are, I think I can probably justify it.
if somebody raises a stink about it you can always go before the association and argue your case anyway.
I me ,
you don't have to put up with all these wild critters coming into your property.
the first year, the deer ate my garden,
I was just astounded.
I'm going deer, right here in the city .
right here, Bambi .
let's see,
other than gardening which I fiddle at,
I'm not very good at,
what else do I, mostly just computer stuff.
I just like playing with my computer and doing stuff on that.
cooking, that's not really a hobby,
it's a necessity.
I enjoy it.
I like to think that I'm a very good cook.
that's about it.
I don't have much time for hobbies, between being a student and trying to run a business on the side,
you don't have a lot of time.
that keeps you busy.
raising cats.
that could become a hobby.
started out as a hobby
developed into sort of a business,
we breed them and all that,
really start it for the money,
it was just,
they were fun to have around
we figured if we're going to have them we might as well have some purebreds
now it developed in to going to cat shows and finding studs for them, and, all this kind of stuff.
What kind of cats are they?
I've got Bombay, a Turkish Van and a Himalayan Persian.
the (( Himie )) is probably the sweetest one.
just a little sweetheart.
Bombay had a litter, last October
w ,
I just got her back from the vet this morning, getting her spayed.
Only going to breed them once.
feeling too great today.
is that typical, to only breed them once?
breeders are in it for the money,
them twice a year
I just think that cruel.
breed these, they breed them before they're ready,
rea ,
do a lot of inbreeding too,
you end up with, kind of strange kittens.
I just don't like that.
will, you, breed one of the litter, then next year?
sold all that litter,
there's not that much call for Bombays.
they're not show cats.
I see.
all you can do is sell them as pet quality.
what you've got is a registered pet.
not too many people want Bombays.
They want things like Himie Persians and Turkish Vans.
Turkish Vans, if you've never seen one, you wouldn't know that it was a pure bred.
It's just, medium size short hair cat.
It's got,
he's mostly white with, brown and black patches.
they have nice personalities
they're very inquisitive.
the Himie, we'll probably breed her a couple of times
end up keeping one out of each litter and then breeding those.
It's just the stud fees are so much, though.
It'll cost about three hundred dollars for a stud for her.
want to breed her with a champion,
Now these are long haired?
the Persian is,
the other two are short hairs.
that's nice.
Going to have some nice kittens, I hope.
know what a Himalayan is, generally they look something like,
they come in a lot of different colors.
People don't realize it
they're sort of Siamese in a way.
gloves on the paws
usually two colored.
this one
she's, black
she has chocolate, paws, chocolate stomach and silver on her hindquarters.
quite attractive looking.
the stud will find her attractive.
that she has kittens that look like her.
that she has a whole bunch of kittens.
we have to be careful,
we have to get a particular color point, stud.
You can't just breed them with anything.
silver point Himie,
that the silver will be predominate in the kittens.
I see.
that's the fun part, trying to figure out what you've got to breed them with,
can't just go out there and say, you guys breed, .
You can't just tell them that anyway,
That's right.
it really sounds like, a business more than a hobby.
is a business in a way,
a lot of fun as a hobby. Especially when you go to shows and get to see all the different cats.
about to get another breed,
to buy a (( Devon Rex )) .
like (( Devon Rexes )) at first.
What is it.
comes from England and, in the county of Devon.
it's a mutant cat.
pretty expensive,
shell out probably about a thousand bucks for one.
they're very thin,
they're long and lanky and skinny.
they have real short hair.
It's curly, as a matter of fact.
it's a strange looking cat.
I didn't like them at first.
They've got great big ears,
thanks for being home, on the weekend,
actually working at night
there very few people that are on the list for calls, on the weekends nights.
sometimes I'm home
sometimes I'm not,
if I am it's always fun to talk.
you part of the school system out there?
I am, as a matter of fact.
I'm at, North Carolina State.
the reason I said that because I've had about, three calls and my daughter had one, too, from different students out of North Carolina.
I guess they pass the names amongst your computer students, or whatever.
I think I was the one who did that
is that ri ,
I had a,
I teach a course in Voice I O Systems.
is that right?
That's wonderful.
about this project,
I got my students to sign up
apparently a number of them have been participating.
I talked to one,
we're not on the subject. Of course,
I talked to one,
I think he had a whole bunch of calls.
He had a roommate that had calls and everything.
He had way more, twice as many calls as, as I've made,
of course, we at T I just hoping it works out that the new products that they come out will, sell like gang
you first on the subject,
do you think, about Latin America?
let's see,
the subject is, Latin America.
Latin America,
I don't know whether I have any real profound thoughts about that,
I planning a trip to Latin America
I got warned off by some people.
They say Peru can't be traveled to
the crime rate in Brazil makes it not a pleasant place to go and so on and so forth.
T I had a place,
I'm not too sure,
I don't think they do anymore,
I think it was Campinas,
I'm not sure
I guess we were selling parts to the automotive industry, or whatever.
they had quite a few, locations,
not quite a few, several, in Latin America.
I think the one in New Mexico is closed
I think the one Brazil is closed,
don't know why that is a problem down there
I guess the crime rate is terrible up here too
some people say go to New York,
have an answer to the crime rate.
It's sad.
That is a sad situation.
like to go down to Mexico,
I keep hearing that, the government the crime rates pretty high too,
is sad.
not that we can, sell any great program we have with crime,
I think, I'm kind of like you,
I don't have any strong opinions on it.
I guess maybe that's our biggest problem we have with neighbors down there is that we don't have any.
We have more,
I guess ties,
we in the United States have more ties to Europe and everything
we don't really, aren't that close to everyone in South America.
I don't really know why though.
don't understand it either, although think a lot of South Americans regard the United States bullying.
that's certainly from a historical point of view, would be true.
certainly we took far more from Mexico than Saddam Hussein ever dreamed of taking, his wildest dreams from his neighbors.
I know that I saw in a book,
I was reading a Spanish book, not that I read Spanish,
I just, reading some Spanish words
there was a comment in there about the Mexicans don't really want us to say, we're Americans.
They would like to say that we're North Americans because they're Americans too,
I guess that's true.
We don't think of any one else but oursel ,
I guess, we're kind of, the smart asses in the world, I suppose, or of America anyway.
We think of ourselves as the only Americans, when they're Americans, too.
I think they're going to have,
that's a tough row for them hoe because I think most of the world is going to regard, citizens of the United States as Americans and citizens of Mexico as Mexicans.
As Mexicans,
they can stand on their heads if they want too,
I don't think that to change that,
I know.
North Americans I think when you say that even, I tend to think of Americans and Canadians.
I just don't think of Mexicans as being North Americans, although, I guess, strictly speaking they are.
they were saying that of us, that we're the North Americans and they're Americans,
we always say we're Americans,
want us to say we're the North Americans.
I see .
We're not Americans,
we're North Americans
they're South Americans,
I don't know.
don't want to make,
I read it somewhere, though
it's not my point, I guess,
so interesting, don't think Mexico's problems are going to be cured by semantics.
were lucky enough to have some oil, ten years ago,
blew all that, and borrowed more money than they can pay back now
they're not exactly business men.
I do think we should deal more with them.
have a lot of sympathy in that we're here in Texas,
for the language, is very foolish.
I'm familiar with Texas school system
we should teach Spanish at least in, grammar school, four or five grades of it so that we can speak Spanish.
I think that helps, when you certainly can speak their language,
there are problems with, the wet back problem,
for, everyone knows what we're talking about,
whe , say wet back problem.
we should somehow,
I think the governments are working on that, to try to have some, businesses, at the borders of both sides so that don't have this problem of them trying to come up here get the jobs,
there, there may be some organized way to do this.
do feel for them,
they are very envious of us, or they wouldn't be coming up here, risking a lot.
Not that they're risking their lives, of course, but risking a lot,
getting thrown back I guess is all that, happens.
You probably don't see that.
we see it, once a month. I'm sure in San Antonio they see it more often than that.
I grew up in Los Angeles.
you out there then, too.
in fact, I drove a cab when I was a graduate student
knew, the Hispanic part of L A pretty well.
certainly, knew that problem,
about apartment houses that would have eight or ten or twelve people living in them, sleeping in the same bed in shifts and all that.
pretty wild.
I think common factor to a lot of problems, whether it be crime, you want to jump on that, is mostly, poverty.
I think a lot of their problems is poverty.
If we could,
the problems we have, in this country, a lot of it's poverty.
Whether it's the people aren't trying hard enough to get out of poverty, that's another story,
it is sad.
so much down in all of South America, so much potential,
T I, of course really pushing world markets in their products
mostly Europe now and, in the Orient, Japan and Singapore now just announced building a plant in Singapore,
they're in Taiwan and Japan
haven't had, that much luck in South America
there's got to be a lot of potential for business down there, for the products certainly that we make and everything.
there's got to be trade.
I guess that's some of the answer, I guess is business,
I try to be an optimist and say, well one way is to help any problem whether it be crime, or certainly poverty obviously get some business going between each other.
to do more of that, somehow. And encourage more business,
between us.
They've got to have a lot of resources I would think. An enormous amount potential that way.
A lot of it, of course is hot and jungle and all that,
there's got to be a lot of potential down there.
are you taking in school,
I'm sorry.
I didn't ask you that.
What are you taking in school?
I am
an instructor,
you're an instructor,
you said.
I give, as it were.
That's great.
Are you teaching Computer Science?
Wha ,
you said, what were you saying you were teaching there?
I'm in Computer Science
very interested in voice systems and in speech recognition,
of course, this project is really one to collect a data base of casual speech, in an attempt to get some kind of a model of what speech is like.
work at T I
I'm a little puzzled as to why when they get my voice one time, why that isn't enough.
I'm getting a kick out of the whole program
there's going to be I guess thousands, I don't know how many thousands, or tens of thousands of these recordings
I wonder how they're going to analyze them. Whether it would be listening to them or analyzing,
I gu ,
they've got to be analyzing with voice recorder some how.
they record these
somebody transcribes them so that they,
they have, they have a speech signal
what is said.
able to average it over a number of different occasions because peoples voices change a lot even from morning to evening
that's, a big problem in speech recognition.
I know they change with age,
I know mine has changed,
although never found,
voice echoes in your own head which makes it different than what it really sounds to other people.
I'm sure singers and professional people know that,
you always hear your own voice in recordings and say, me,
I know your voice in your own head resonates a different way.
go ahead,
comment on it,
I'm glad that you're in the business.
I kno ,
T I s gotten with their Speak and Spell and everything,
I've told my wife, that one of the reasons they're doing it is because eventually you'll be able to talk to your computer,
you wouldn't have to have a keyboard,
you'll be able to just give it commands
I'm sure they have some of that now,
in computers but a lot of potential, of course for handicapped people,
I think you got it.
my first thoughts on capital punishment i ,
the first thing I want to say no. Just simply because we as human beings don't have the right to take another human being's life.
we are punishing someone for taking someone's life,
in some cases, we are punishing a person for taking someone's life.
in effect we are committing that same crime.
it sounds like you have really strong views on it.
I can see that point,
I also have this,
I guess I can look at it both ways.
just to play devil's advocate,
it never seems right to me, that, we take in people that are criminals
and people that are, low income or even middle income that are struggling to provide for their families,
our taxes are paying to feed and shelter those people.
Ac ,
it just,
I find very difficult to swallow,
One thing I don't understand is whole concept of death row.
these people are supposedly, I guess waiting to die,
I'm with you there.
there are thousands upon
thousands of people on
death row.
I'm not saying that,
I guess I am kind of saying, are we doing?
I guess that's the same thing you were saying.
are we doing with these people?
Ha ,
They're there,
we should take some kind of action,
take enough
go a different route.
they're just,
when you think of the thousands and thousands of dollars that get burned in court costs,
we could be poor people and helping,
helping the environment.
prison is such a waste of a human being.
It doesn't do anyone any good.
people need to be punished,
I do agree with your statement that to take a human life is wrong.
act ,
locking someone up and not getting, any benefit
from that for the person or for society to me is wrong too.
I guess I see both sides, in that same time that I'm saying that, we're committing the same crime,
I also agree that, if there is somebody out there that's crazy and cruel enough
to kill somebody or
exactly w ,
in some cases, kill several people at one time.
there was a case in Dallas,
I'm sure they haven't gone to court yet,
apparently two teenage boys held up a Taco Bell.
They put four people in a freezer and shot them all.
to me, that is inhumane.
for two people to be out in the world like that, want them in my world.
That's right.
You understand what I am saying?
That's right.
I'm not for killing anyone,
I don't want these people around,
We want a
at the same time,
safe environment for ourselves.
we want to remove them.
I think that the whole crux of the problem is,
no one has come up with a solution
that is acceptable,
that does, basically,
think, that the whole idea of, the death penalty was invented for two reasons.
It them from society,
number two, it's the punishment, it's the ultimate punishment.
Because, they've harmed someone
you want to appease the people that have suffered.
really doesn't take their pain away.
the same time, like you said, it drains society.
it's a,
I think we should be,
the same money that we're using to build more prisons and make more prison space and keep these people in prison, that same money or half of that money could be used towards, rehabilitation programs of some sort.
put these people back in society,
prepare them first.
is so incredibly complex.
I have a friend who works on the pardon and
she interviews,
inmates all the time that are coming up for parole.
she says it is just really frightening how easy it is to, have the prisons release people because they're overcrowded.
these people have not benefited from the stay there.
She says, just their emotional state and their way of thinking is so incredibly wrong
there's not anything she can do to keep them in.
if they meet certain guidelines,
those guidelines keep getting lessened and lessened because they have to do it to make the system work.
want people out of prison
you want people to get jobs and,
and live happy lives.
they can't just walk out of prison and do that.
They can't just
That's right.
walk out of prison and say, I'm going to go a different route.
That's right.
There has to be some sort of buffer
in there.
Some sort of program or,
I know this costs money,
it couldn't cost any more money than we're already spending.
I know,
I know.
would like to see the money that's been for new prisons being put into the research alternate solutions to the problem.
How are we going to fix that, Tanya?
How are we going to make that happen?
what can we do?
What power do we have?
everyone's trying to make it, in their own little world.
I'm trying to make it with my job, and make, myself okay and make my
That's right.
family okay.
it's so hard to, try and be one of the movers and shakers, I guess you would call them.
I know,
I know.
sounds like you are,
interested in what's going on around you.
when you have voice, you do contribute,
I guess that's, we're meant to do.
Maybe an opportunity will come by that we will have a chance to make a real change.
a broadcast journalist,
I feel like one day I probably will write a book something,
some of these views
Where do you work?
will be able to come out.
I work at channel six, here.
you do?
news reporter.
That's great!
guess, pretty emotional about crime, things like that now.
I've only been in it for a year,
I get
to see pretty much, close up, a lot of things that happen that people don't see.
I a lot of crimes,
I get to see, people's, pain and things,
when we talk about,
Most of us are so sheltered,
a few people in the news that bring it to us
and make us see what's out there.
really performing benefit to society
A service.
in doing that.
I don't know,
guess I would like to probably editorialize more.
We have to just report what's happening.
can't say, this is what I think about,
the situation.
Sometimes, you really want to say that,
you really want to say what you think should be done, or how you think this court case should have gone,
that's a,
I'm just agreeing with you. When I think of it, how difficult it must be to just to just give the facts. Because usually on an issue that you really care about, to, persuade people to your viewpoint.
you're right,
that has got to be a challenge sometimes.
Especially when you are dealing with subject like, capital punishment or something or
abortion, or something where there's no or yes side,
have your side,
you have to report both sides.
you really don't want to because you have your side.
you have to walk right down the middle with it.
sometimes that's hard
I'm sure.
sounds interesting.
I'll read your book sometime.
That's good.
All right.
it was nice talking to you.
I enjoyed it.
Thanks for calling.
Bye, bye.
We're official now,
. Yeah,
very hot,
in fact I've been cleaning, because I live in an apartment
I can't do very much gardening other than balcony gardening
I have the little flower boxes with, a lot of different flowers,
I do enjoy plants,
I don't have a yard or anything that I can do gardening,
you're not the so called ex ,
you need a house, I guess, to go through all of that.
I have had a couple of houses,
the only recommendation I would have for someone who hasn't gardened is, one, get a couple of good books, of books, of course,
usually they have talk shows.
Here in Dallas
they have two great, talk shows that go through everything that will grow here, which is the opposite probably of what would grow up where you are
in fact, could easily do that now, turn on a talk show up there
and see if got to be some gardening folks
on the radio that says when to put your grass in, what kind of grass to grow up in Virginia and everything,
for someone who doesn't garden, I'd say, my biggest recommendation is to,
you enjoy gardening?
I like it a lot,
it's a lot of work.
I'm an engineer,
with T I.
are you with T I up there
I'm with a defense contractor.
where was,
like it,
always know that why I'm not a farmer when I garden though,
it is dog work,
it is tough
I have a lot of trees, down here,
the part I don't like, I guess, would be from December through February where you have to rake leaves
forever it seems like,
the wind blows all the leaves on from your neighbor after you rake yours,
other than those three months, when it's pure dog work
the rest of it's very enjoyable just going through the experiences putting little plants in or whatever
haven't had to plant any trees because I've got so many,
I do listen to that talk show.
is some great people from Texas A and M,
I don't know,
maybe you've heard of A and M down here,
there's some great, folks,
that have been well trained, and, again, recommend gardening for this area.
I'm sure it is, different in the different areas.
I'm originally from Pennsylvania,
I do go home on weekends during the Summer mow my mother's grass and different things like that.
you probably have rye grass up there.
We grow bermuda and Saint Augustine here.
I would have no idea .
you would have to learn that, though,
No idea whatsoever.
Like I said, I'm just a balcony kind of gardener with my little flowers and my flower boxes and my herbs on
my window sill,
Do you have much luck in the Winter,
because the roots are all, in the Winter,
do you have to start all over every year?
I have to start all over every year
except, I do have some, some day lilies that
I don't do anything with
they seem to come back year after year,
I leave them on my balcony even in
In the same pot,
that's amazing.
in the snow and the Winter,
in the ice, everything, because here, not as severe as the snow is in Pennsylvania,
here we still do get some snow and ice and
things like that.
I grow a few things in pots,
we have to bring them in here
in the Winter because usually, if it's not below the ground so you can insulate the roots from freezing
the pots die,
everything in a pot will die
you can bring them,
we do bring stuff in the garage and everything
it's quite time consuming, by the way.
I don't know how close you are to getting a house or anything,
it's quite,
I would definitely do it,
I'm all for doing everything,
whatever subject you pick, do it the knowledgeable way
don't go out there and start digging holes,
I agree with that.
Get some books of whether it be Pennsylvania or Virginia
well as,
not your neighbors, of course, they usually know nothing
listen to still,
then there's always a gardening part of the newspaper
or communications, as well as, I bet there's a talk show up there right now that if you turn the dial around
on Saturday,
this is Saturday,
you'll find someone, probably in the morning, I don't know
discussing, what we do up in Virginia to get something growing
you probably don't have to do much over there,
the soil's probably so good
our soil's not very good down here.
I guess in the ice age, it's pushed a lot of, limestone and everything,
to some parts of Dallas you just can dig a foot down and you hit solid limestone,
Wow, huh.
I think all the trees that are here now were planted kind of like the Johnny Appleseed type trees, where people have come from,
I'm sure the Indians were here there was nothing growing in this part of Dallas,
it's so scrubby
I think that we even got our famous hundred year old pecan trees from Alabama and all that, too
call them native pecan trees
they grow wild here,
they're eating pecans though .
Pecans are probably not taken from Virginia,
they're probably only in the South
for pecan pie and all that,
it's what they call pie up there in the East.
(( )) from Pennsylvania and New Jersey,
I'm from New Jersey originally.
you don't sound like it .
I've worked on that with a little chewing gum, which I shouldn't do,
Go ahead,
how many times have you called by the way,
how many times have you been called?
I've been called a lot,
at the times, though, it's been not very appropriate,
I guess, that I haven't been able to actually participate.
I've participated probably in about maybe, I don't know, seven calls
I've called a couple of times,
most of the time I notice that, it takes forever to get a call through.
that's what I'm saying,
today, to laugh, because I tried it this morning,
I thought everybody was gardening,
I thought,
This is a great subject because they're out there gardening,
I didn't tell you what our weather is like.
It is beautiful here
it's like eighty five degrees here,
It's not quite that hot.
we've had a real nice mild Spring.
You might have seen, if you've seen the news today about all the tornados here that were
I haven't
north of us.
I don't know if you get C N N.
I don't get C N N
it's here at work
in fact, I'm at work today, believe it or not.
they have T V s in the break areas
there was some heavy tornados, I guess in Kansas,
quite a few people were killed.
You'll see that on the evening news.
I'll have to make sure I catch that.
Tornados, which is not the right subject,
they blow through here all in the Spring.
I guess it's related somewhat to the weather,
the plants and all
sometimes they do essentially nothing,
the weather men yesterday were all alert,
there's something really terrible going to happen,
sure were right,
it wasn't in Texas,
it was
north of us.
look at the news tonight,
I'll have to make sure I catch that,
they claim thirty odd people were killed up in Kansas City, Kansas,
back on planting.
(( )) . It is very interesting, subject,
did you get a house,
trees grow up so well up there,
I'm sure you have plenty of trees.
is a key thing for shade
and keeping your bills down,
I guess you have mostly pine trees,
where in Virginia are you all?
right now, the District,
in Fairfax, Virginia.
It's fifteen miles west of Washington, D C.
do you have the cherry blossoms or not?
a few,
not, nearly as many as what's actually in the District.
they're definitely enjoyable.
Right now I know the azaleas and everything are out are beautiful.
azaleas grow all over,
we grow those here, too,
although again, we have to prepare the soil.
You probably have nice big pine,
you probably have all kinds of trees, the oaks and everything,
that's one thing I noticed there.
there is a vast variety here of, trees,
if I look out my window right now, I can see, couple of pine trees, some oak trees
Have you ever been down here?
I haven't.
it's interesting country.
It is wide open, and flat
again as I said, I think when the Indians were here there, there weren't any trees,
civilization has brought all kinds of experiments with all kinds of trees,
a lot of them have done well
they do have some pine forest areas in east Texas
where you have native pine trees,
here in Dallas I think they all were planted by the classical Johnny Appleseed, and Johnny Pecanseed, whatever you would call it,
there's a tremendous amount of pecan trees
that we use eating
I think they thought that was going to be a great boom crop, hundred and fifty years ago, because they are all over the place
in the South.
What else?
I guess that I really don't know that much.
I don't have any say.
the subjects are usually pretty interesting.
I'm, of course, I'm a T I er,
I'm hoping this works.
T I is very good, has done a lot of experiments in the speech,
can't say it.
they've come out with some new products,
in fact this week, they came out with some new math,
you might see them in your advertisements,
new math,
Speak and Math, devices.
have had Speak and Spell and all that for years
they've come out with some different ones
this past week,
my wife and everyone,
are they going to accomplish out of all this,
I said, you're not going to have to type on the computer one day,
you're just going to have to talk to it
it's going to be much faster, of course,
the classical thing for the handicapped, too, person who can't type very fast
like I can of course
not that I can type very fast either
then what about people that,
I personally work with someone is deaf, and cannot speak.
She can speak,
she can't speak very clearly
she in fact is a data entry person,
she types away all day,
I'll tell you why I feel so,
I feel strongly about this topic.
I don't know a whole lot about the immigration laws.
I do know that in the, where I live and I teach school, there are so many Orientals that have come here
there's a lot of Mexican people too. Which is not, neither here nor there,
the fact is that all the Orientals that are here are very affluent, very wise in money matters and over a lot of businesses,
ki ,
it's kind of scary because they're so bright.
all the kids that I have that are Oriental are really far above the American kids.
parents are unbelievable because they are just on the way up.
money is their main goal.
really is kind of scary because just oodles of them.
you can not believe the businesses and corporations that have been taken over by Orientals.
of scares me, not that I don't want them here and not that I don't appreciate the fact they have rights too.
on the other hand, you feel like almost invading us to the point where they're going to take over .
my son once said perhaps, what we should do buy a little square of land some place in the Midwest.
that might be the solution .
I think probably that's,
a good idea.
Because I lived in Iowa about ten years before I came here.
I was born in Ohio,
a lot of Mexican people here because we're so close to the border.
they are wonderful people
want to deny them their rights.
Just that you, you feel like when you were born and raised here and you worked very hard to make this country what it is, it scares you when you feel like somebody's taking over.
a lot of these people plan one day to go back, Vietnam or to, Taiwan or wherever they're from. And take with them a lot of American dollars plus a lot of power in American companies.
it's kind of scary .
I don't know,
I don't know the immigration laws
I do not,
in fact I don't know them at all.
I don't know how many people they allow in the United States per year or if there's even a,
I don't even know if there is a number that they allow in anymore.
Do you know anything about that?
I don't,
I don't know.
I lived in the Middle East for sometime
do believe there must have been some sort of quota system because, I know a lot of people that certainly were deserving to come.
it seemed to take them a long time
there was a lot of uncertainty as to whether they would be able to come .
I would guess that, there are quotas for different places.
I would think so too.
I think there's something about being able claim, imminent danger
I'm not sure what the terminology is.
Maybe political a ,
Asylum, of some sort.
you go.
You got the term.
maybe that's issue with lot of people.
I don't know.
guess I haven't been in a situation where been threatening me.
I teach in the suburb of Dallas
my kids go to school in another suburb of Dallas. with very, very good school systems.
they're considered, one of the top three in the state. Both of them,
it seems like a lot of the Orientals make sure that their kids go to these schools.
they're head and shoulders above a lot of the kids here.
the kids in this area are very bright. And come from, parents that are professionals or semiprofessionals very interested in their education.
I think in the, last year, mistaken, in four of the six high schools, the graduating class valedictorian and salutatorian were, half or more Oriental.
they're just extremely bright kids.
also they value learning.
I was going to say, would guess that it's not that they are any brighter,
they just maybe work harder
think things come easy for them too.
I do think that they have that work ethic that we somehow have missed the boat in with a lot of kids in the United States.
want to work for anything.
They want it to come to them be there
they don't want to work hard.
these kids work really hard.
May ,
they have,
maybe part of that's the problem that here let this value slip.
I know,
I agree with that.
they need to have some competition.
what I see is y ,
the competition is there,
instead of meeting the challenge, they're starting to resent them.
it's causing, I think problems.
that's too bad.
It really is.
Because we see a lot of racial problems in area anyway,
especially in Dallas.
it's mainly Black and Hispanic.
resentment with Orientals in the Black community because they've started businesses there,
the Blacks resent them coming in and taking their money,
there's been some violence because of it.
that's really sad.
It is.
very sad.
I really,
I've always prided myself on not being prejudiced and everyone
that wants to come here.
even when I was younger I was in college, I was a member of the N A A C P because I lived up north,
I was very into the human rights part of everything.
I've become very cynical
in the last three, four years living in Texas.
it sounds like you feel that there is need for change.
Maybe e ,
there is too big of a concentration coming all at once allow for adequate melting into the society.
that's exactly true.
Plus the fact that these people do come for a short period of time. Two, two, three, four maybe five years and then go back. And pick our brains, which is wonderful, and take all that back with them.
plus a lot of American dollars.
the long run maybe that's going to make a better world too.
you just don't know.
An ,
there's somebody on my other line
I'm going to ignore
I just,
you don , you really don't know what to do.
I don't,
I want my kids to have values where they're accepting and so forth.
both of my children are really of Blacks and than they are of the Orientals,
for some reason.
They feel, like they've taken over.
They feel like, they're taking some of rewards that they should have.
I really don't want that to happen.
it's happening.
I think a lot of their friends feel the same way too.
I really do wish I knew about quotas and really wish I
I really do wish knew more about immigration laws because I have no idea any more.
Because they've changed a great deal.
suspect that they have.
I guess, I don't have much, much more to contribute to the topic.
I don't really either.
I wish I knew more.
Probably if I did, I might be a little bit more, tolerant,
even if really wish I knew the situations they were going back to or coming from.
You don't know any of that
you feel, you can't put yourself in their shoes or really understand them.
for some reason Orientals are very,
my good friend calls them pushy,
I call them very, that
they know what they want
they go get it.
in stores and so
Goal directed.
and so forth it's, wh ,
pardon me?
Goal directed.
in stores and things, sometimes they can be very impolite because in front of you
I see.
or take something that you had in mind to get before you did.
just going for it, they take it quickly.
they don't think anything of that.
I don't,
that's makes people resentful too.
yet a right to be here
I know that.
sometimes it's gets touchy.
I'm sure it's a lot different,
you're from Maryland,
You said?
What part of Maryland are you from?
Up in the Gaithersburg area.
My sister used to live there,
in that area.
sure that it's a lot different there.
it's a lot different than it is here.
lot of
Is that right?
And, varieties.
with the same problems that you've mentioned.
I don't know,
I guess I wasn't involved enough really stop to think about it.
teach, I it.
I feel
I love the example that most of these children give our American children.
yet, I can see why some of the parents are fearful too.
it's a kind of a touchy situation.
I wish that we could all just learn from each other and not feel threatened.
it doesn't happen that way
all the time.
it was good talking to you.
It was good to talk you too.
I h ,
have a good trip in California.
have a good weekend.
All right.
thank you.
Bye bye.
Bye bye .
do you have any, ideas on universal health insurance?
Do you have any strong opinions?
I think it's probably a good ideal,
You do?
I think, given that there are so many people who don't have health insurance. It's probably a real smart thing,
at least to have some basic coverage for everyone.
you hear these horror stories of people, homeless people going to the hospital and,
and being thrown out because they have no insurance,
and having to go to someplace else.
it would be nice if, no matter where you are, or who you are, what happened, what happened to you, you just go to the hospital and they say, take him,
we will worry about who he is later
That would be a nice thing.
I feel like there should be some kind of coverage made,
really leery of a, kind of a government administrative health insurance or medical plan, because I just feel like everything that the government takes over is just going to be run much poorly
it is going to be about six times more expensive.
I know, certainly true.
I wonder about in Canada.
In Canada, where everybody, everybody automatically has insurance in Canada.
they have that in England too,
I think that it's a pretty poor,
they get a lot lower quality care than we do.
I know some people don't agree with me,
I know you have to wait real long time to get, certain surgeries that aren't emergency,
you don't have the kind of choices that we have here,
I've worked a lot in doctor's offices and hospitals
I really don't want to give up having those choices.
That's true.
I think,
there is a night and day difference between good doctors and bad doctors, and good hospitals and bad hospitals.
That's true,
that's true.
in England, at least at the time when I was familiar with it, about ten years ago, they just told you what day you had to show up and where you had to show up and who your doctor was going to be.
didn't get any choices at all?
I mean that.
that's a problem.
because even among,
even now, the way we have it now, there are still.
It's getting worse,
isn't it?
we have,
an H M O allows us to pick our own physicians.
I picked a primary care physician and just didn't like him,
I had to switch because I just thought he was a quack.
That's exactly the problem,
there's just so many, such variation
I guess, what they had in England, and I guess in Canada is socialized medicine.
maybe, that's the extreme of it.
Do you think?
that is the extreme,
I think that tends to do though is I think that tends to,
it probably has two, a good and a bad side,
for young people wanting to become doctors. Which again a lot of people who are motivated, because the money isn't, I guess, as much,
for doctors anymore,
up getting the people who really want to be doctors, being doctors,
Really want to.
then again, you don't get those people who would be good,
and are real smart and decided, I want to make a lot of money,
I will go into medicine.
You don't get those.
people also get the feeling that, you have a lot of job security there,
it's more of, seniority, I would imagine kind of thing, instead of having a skill whatever to advance,
That's true.
you don't necessarily get the kind of quality control or the kind of,
I don't know.
it would be nice to see something where at least,
I think we have to have something.
We really do.
even something that says look, free major medical for all, everyone
beyond that, you could work out on your own if you want.
I know,
don't know,
having worked in doctor's offices and stuff I see it from a physician's point of view.
I think the problem with the skyrocketing cost right now is the insurance companies because,
I don't see doctors getting real rich,
I think hospitals do make money, but not nearly as much as insurance companies.
I think they are really making a killing and nobody is talking about it.
they are the ones who make,
they are the ones,
they have, the (( )) although,
the unfortunate part of that is that the people, I think, tend to forget that doctors are humans as well.
insurance companies have to charge a substantial amount for certain people, or certain types doctors, given that, someone decides to have a malpractice suit against them, it could be millions, unfortunately.
if the doctor, whether, it was,
I'm sure there are those cases the doctor is wrong or malicious or something.
you know their,
Their mistakes are made.
Everybody makes mistakes, unfortunately.
It shouldn't be a billion dollar, industry.
It should be.
I made a mistake
their compensation.
I think that's the legal part of it coming into it to.
that is a big problem.
I wonder if we should have a limit on how much people can sue for.
That would be nice.
, I don't know because then that's where the insurance company,
then if people weren't having to spend these huge amounts of money on getting insurance coverage.
It would be a lot better.
I'm sort of government run medicine program.
Sort of.
I'm in a,
Are you?
I'm a graduate student.
At where?
At University of Rochester.
In Rochester, New York.
I'll bet you are in Texas.
I'm in Texas
I was going to bet that,
turns out, my wife has pretty decent coverage through her company.
and can get me coverage as well.
which is great.
offers me two plans.
They offer what they call the mandatory version,
which is basically major medical
they offer the (( )) portion. Which is,
which is, sort of everything else you need. Sort of your basic care.
Beyond major medical and stuff.
they don't,
even though wife's insurance covers me,
for everything,
I still have to pay them a hundred and some odd dollars a semester.
that's for the mandatory portion of the insurance.
that can't be legal.
I'm not actually sure if it is or not
people sort of keep fighting it
I mean to keep fighting it,
my gosh.
it's just one of these things where I just don't want to spend my time.
make you pay for insurance coverage?
the reason,
their rational they make everyone pay for it so that keeps the cost of university health services down,
everyone can use it.
You know it.
does it keep the cost down?
everyone is now forced to pay for this.
there is an,
they just use the money for something else besides your insurance policy?
what they use it
what they use it for is university health services.
We have a,
we have a hospital here, and a subportion of the hospital.
you're subsidizing the hospital.
obviously, we're paying for the welfare state.
my wife and I have chosen to use the university
health services as our primary care facility.
We can do that.
in effect, I'm paying twice for one service.
I know.
that's the thing,
that is the thing,
now that I'm in my thirties now, and I have three kids
I'm very liberal.
I'm extremely liberal,
now I just in the last couple of years. I have gotten to the point where I am saying I just cannot afford to pay anymore,
to help people out.
want to keep helping people out
I need for the government or the agencies, to find a way to do it on the amount of money, that I can afford.
I just can't afford anymore.
just outrageously.
It's just starting to get me angry,
for the first time in my life. I am starting to feel like
Well, I guess, it has to do with a lot of the stuff that I find out I am paying for now.
certainly true,
if I can't afford to have some kind of optional operation for myself.
medical coverage has gotten increasingly worse over, let's see, the past five years, to the point now where even if we need surgery, our insurance only covers eighty percent of it.
which is ridiculous.
no matter what happens to me, if I get in a car accident this afternoon, I have being able to afford the outrageous medical costs,
because my insurance is now only eighty percent of whatever it's going to be.
on top of that, then, decide to have universal health insurance,
I'm subsidizing,
Everybody else.
what if they are lucky enough to get into a doctor and a program that's going to say, you really need to have those varicose veins fixed, or your teeth fixed or something like that.
I am paying for it.
stuff like that has happened with education and with other things that you hear about
it's just, Wait a minute .
my kids aren't getting that.
How come kids are getting that?
I know it's only in a few cases
I don't want them cut funding for welfare programs or anything.
I don't want them to do that, because I know a lot of people, they live right on the edge
they need that.
one of the strange,
I think it's strange that as you get older.
the tendency is that as people get older,
and gain, to say more responsibility, but things like homes and kids,
and so forth.
They tend to lose that liberalism they had when they were younger.
funny because a couple of years ago, I heard a quote from Winston Churchill.
Let's see if I can remember it,
anybody who's not a liberal in his twenties has no heart,
a person who is not a conservative in his fifties has no brain.
It was something like that .
That's probably very true.
I don't know,
I guess that's what's happening to me,
think it's just starting,
don't know maybe other people,
do you think it's a sign of the times, that people are starting to say, we really mean it, no more taxes ,
maybe this is just my own personal.
people are starting to really mean it,
everywhere look, you are getting something new.
you start off,
you guys I believe in Texas you don't have state tax, do you?
no income tax.
federal income tax.
State income tax, local income tax.
We have state tax on gasoline.
on top of the federal tax on gasoline,
we have state tax on gasoline,
we are just.
I tell you, we have incredible property taxes down here.
that could be, making up for the difference.
we don't have the services either that other states have.
All righty.
I think one of the most significant changes that have happened is that they've changed from homemaker to the work market.
And for several reasons.
Probably some of that is divorce
some is they're more educated than they used to be I think.
I think sometimes, leaders in government they've become more, adroit in that area, too, instead of just men all the time.
We have more women in government.
now I'll let you say something .
I probably a little bit older than you are,
what I see, is,
the change that I see the most that, women have many more occupations and careers to choose from than when I to college.
When I went to college you could be a teacher or maybe a nurse or a secretary,
there were very few women in business at that time.
A few,
they were the oddity.
Very limited.
now I see
I see for my daughter, which is wonderful this,
she's thirteen
I see a whole wonderful world out there that she can choose from,
so many different jobs, which I think is terrific.
I'm a teacher
I love teaching,
are a lot of other things I would have liked better.
not that I would give the career up because a safe career, plus, because I always have a job plus I am a single parent, too,
the income.
I think that's the reason why a lot of women started to work, too, is because economically it's just a must.
I think that's right.
you just,
it's very difficult to get along on one income unless , the male, has an extraordinarily good job.
especially men who teach school, they don't make that much money,
most all,
they always have
they're moonlighting else wife works, too.
it's just an economic need now.
I really think women have so much more responsibility as far as everything.
like you said, women today have so many,
the average today of having single family, with the mother as the head,
it just really, so commonplace,
We have quite a few teachers at our school that are single parents
the majority is, married couple with children,
still there's a lot more than there used to be.
you never picture yourself in a situation like this.
When I married, I thought I'd be married the rest of my life.
really grateful that I went to college.
My mother always said, get an education in case you need one, because my father died when we were,
I have a twin sister
we were eleven when he died
she had a nursing degree,
she was able to make it.
she said you never know what's going to happen
I thank God that I did go to college and got a degree because otherwise I don't know how I would be able to raise my children.
isn't that funny, because the same thing happened to us, except I was twelve.
my mother had a nursing degree and was able to make it in her profession,
Isn't that something.
isn't that funny?
that they were able to do it,
even today I think the chance for education is, is so much, better for all of our girls,
boys, too.
the girls especially.
I do, too.
I think it needs to continue to change
think there's still not equality as far as, paychecks for men and women.
I think that we still have a long way to go.
A lot of things,
by the year two thousand it, we're going to see a lot more changes, hopefully, that women are, able to get executive jobs,
and hold positions that do because they can do it just as well,
if they want to dedicate most of their time to that they can do it.
I also think that in the future that, it's going to continue.
We're not going to see a lax off of women in the work force.
I think they're going to stay there
I think that they're going to, be really responsible do everything just like, what you said, the grade make it so women can be the top people in their,
in their field.
I think that's the way it should be.
I think it ,
I think so.
not that think that I'm equal to men because there's a lot of things that men can do that I, could never do strength wise and so forth
also there's some things women can do like have children,
that men can't do.
to be equal
want to be, I want to get what I deserve
I want to be able to be on the same level with them.
If I can do a job as well as I man I think I should get the same pay,
not a women's libber.
I really am not.
think we have just as many rights as they do.
I feel like if there's a qualified woman to do the job and if she's good or better than a man then get the job with the same pay.
That's right.
I think that is happening more and more.
I do, too.
I think it's just going to take a little bit longer.
I do, too.
Definitely .
it was good to talk to you.
Good to talk to you, Sally.
All right.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
I don't have any, I guess, definite views about elderly care.
the first thing that comes to mind is kind of those horror movies that you see,
where elderly people are abused and things like that.
I think that's one thing that I would look at if I was putting my grandmother or my mother, in some sort of home.
The first thing that I would look at would be their history.
As far as any court cases that came out of there, the history of, their doctors, their nurses, and things like that.
I agree with you.
a group that I'm a part of goes once a month to they call it the Heritage House.
a nursing home for elderly people.
this particular one has people that are in pretty bad shape.
A lot of them have had, limbs amputated, or, have serious illnesses.
that kind of thing.
I watched,
the interesting thing was I watched this particular one change hands.
It started out just being a terrible place for the people,
a new company bought it,
and came in and remodeled the whole place.
Hired new nurses and, redid it,
Just out of curiosity, kinds of things were they doing when they were considered a bad place?
to me, it was dirty, for one thing.
when you would walk in, the smell was just,
if you're walking on them, feel how filthy they were.
there were a lot of people just kind of up and down the halls laying in their beds hollering and, crying,
my goodness.
Of course, I don't know how many of them were, not in their right mind.
or how many were,
In pain or something.
I just really don't know,
I feel like they were neglected.
that was what I was going to say.
It sounds like just neglect all over.
neglect to cleanup.
I don't really think anyone was being, cruel or,
or trying to mistreat them or anything.
I just think they were not doing anymore, than they had to do.
just kind of letting everybody live in a not very good environment .
this new company came in
remodeled the place.
it smells nice when you walk in.
it looks nice.
they got several new color T V's for the people,
And redid the dining room, where they made it, a lot more place for them to be.
They made a little patio area where they can go outside.
That's great.
Just, small things that make it seem a lot more homey.
a lot more like an apartment place instead of just,
personally hate to know that my mother or grandmother or anyone is in a home like that.
my biggest fear is that they would be lonely.
I would like to know that there are, just a lot of activities, like you said, just putting a plant in a room,
and just makes them, just a little more active.
They can go outside
just to know that they're not, laying in a room,
looking at gray walls.
what would just really kill me.
I'd like to know that, they have friends there,
and they have little conversations and things.
I'd like to know there's a lot of interaction and,
maybe some kind activity, little field trips or something.
I don't know how they would do that.
this place that we visit, it's really neat.
schedules of groups that come in.
they will do bingo.
Our group does a church service once a month.
other groups come in and do the services, other Sundays,
that they have at least one service every Sunday.
there are a lot of things.
There are places that have a lot of things for them to do.
you really do have to kind of seek it out,
and make sure that it's not a place like this one was .
I didn't realize that there were groups that go in like that.
really neat.
it is.
It's real nice.
I know our church does it
there are a lot of other churches,
they are just like civic organizations,
that do.
I have other friends.
It's kinds of neat, they take animals over and let the people pet them.
they also have a dog that maybe needs a home
they will wash it all up,
and make sure a friendly animal,
And take it in and the old elderly people pet the dogs.
That's great.
That will be something, they would look forward to if they knew, that the puppy is coming on Wednesday.
that would be something to look for.
That's really neat.
That really is.
I thought that was a real unusual thing,
for someone to do.
there's a lot that can be done.
It's just a matter of people not being lazy.
doing the best they can.
Again, I don't know what I'd do if it was my own mother or grandmother,
Putting any of my family in an elderly home, to me would be the very last resort.
I know it's hard for a lot of families if you're trying work or trying to take care of your own family,
it's kind of hard because an elderly person sometimes can be totally dependent,
on you.
I know that's hard sometimes
it would really have to be a last resort,
because that would just,
I would feel so guilty.
I would, too.
I don't know.
Unless I knew that they were somewhere, great.
that they were really enjoying.
I know.
I know what you mean.
I don't know anyone personally that's in an elderly home.
I have interesting conversations with a lot of these people because, many of them, of course, their minds are not good.
a lot them have told me exactly the same story,
every time I visit them.
They'll reminisce about childhood,
and tell me something that they did
the next time I go it's the same thing,
just somebody to listen to them.
just seems to make them really feel good.
Nod your head and smile at them.
I'll tell you the people I feel the sorriest for,
there's a guy at this particular one I go to,
that I think that he's really an intelligent person,
he has cerebral palsy so bad that he just cannot communicate.
he's blind
he has seizures,
he's just in a world of his own,
yet he wants so much,
to be around people.
if you come over to him, if he can touch your hand, he'll grab it and kiss it.
he's always got a smile.
he really tries to, brighten up your life.
it's just amazing.
he can't say anything.
He can just kind of make noises.
That's something, that, if I had to work in an elderly home, I don't think I could do it.
would really like to be a teacher,
I don't think I could do it. Because I'm very, very emotional.
Me, too.
something happens,
I cry on, Hallmark commercials.
I know.
That's just the end of me.
I know.
I mean something real life, I just,
I interview a lot of children,
I'm an education reporter,
I always go and do an education things.
I meet these kids who are, dropping out of school left and right.
all the sudden, they're in this program.
They're making straight A's,
they're going to graduate early,
want to hug them,
and go, you are just fantastic.
I could just imagine, working in a home like that,
those people, they're so sweet and,
and so genuine,
all they want is just for everything to be happy,
that would probably just tear me apart.
it does.
I mean, in a good way,
it is,
it's really hard
one of the neatest things I think though is we always take our kids.
I have a three year old and a six year old,
they, have gotten comfortable being around these people,
because they've always gone with us,
the people love them.
I'm sure.
they want the children, to hug them or hold their hand
so far, my kids will do it. Just real easily,
I think it's because they've gone since they were real little,
they've never been afraid.
that's something,
to me children,
need to,
people need to take groups of children,
Because the kids just brighten up their lives.
As we walk through lobby they'll all say, bring her here.
I want to see her .
I would love to hold her.
usually a (( )) of elderly people share their experiences with the,
with the younger children.
They'll be telling them all kinds of stories.
that they don't even know what they mean.
That's true.
they feel like they've lived life
they need to share it.
I'm sure I'll be like that, too.
me, too.
It's quite an experience.
that's great.
I didn't know there were such groups.
there are.
it really helps those people, I think.
like you said, I'd really have a lot of second thoughts before I put any of my own family members there.
It would be a last resort.
I would hate it if anyone put me in one.
I know.
I'm always afraid like,
what if I lose my mind.
Am I going to end up in a place like that ?
Somebody take care of me.
that's right.
nice to talk to you.
You, too, (( Tonya )) .
Thanks for calling.
Bye bye.
have you got a pet.
Y ,
I don't,
my kids would love a pet.
I had a pet when I was a girl.
I had a Cocker Spaniel.
I think one thing about pets is they're a lot of company.
tell them anything
they won't tell anybody.
That's right,
that's unconditional affection.
as a matter of fact, I was thinking that same thing, unconditional love.
They just give it,
and don't expect too much.
do you have a pet?
I had a cat,
I've had several cats.
My pet, was hit by a car New Year's Eve,
Oh! .
I'm going to get another one as soon as I get back in town.
I'm going out of town this weekend,
when I get back I'm going to find a cat.
I'm so sorry.
that's good that you're going to get another one.
I know some of my friends who have pets,
they just are really,
the ones that have dogs are very, protective of them
I think that's one reason they have them, especially older people that I know, that have pets.
they just, really take care of them, or, are protective of them.
Ye ,
I work and go to school
it's kind of nice
tha ,
you come home pet's there for you and wants a little food a little attention.
it's kind of fun.
they really want a dog badly,
they've been looking and looking
they'd take anything I think ,
I don't know do you like,
I guess your cat was an indoor cat.
it was kind of indoor, outdoor,
It kind of traveled around
(( travel )) .
it was,
care for the smell of the litter box
my cat was trained to go outside,
other than that it was inside when it wanted to be, it was outside when (( )) .
when I had a Cocker Spaniel was an outdoor dog
I think I liked that better.
I like dogs,
I think that,
kind of like
you have to have room for them.
that's true.
dogs take more care than cats do.
Cats are pretty independent,
you feed them
they keep themselves clean
if you,
that's true.
if you raise them right, you don't have to worry about the litter box thing, where with dogs you really do have to let them out and take them for walks and
Take them for walks,
things like that.
I see all the people Sunday going for a walk with their dogs
kind of skeptical with my son getting a dog,
I'm like I know it will be fun the first week maybe,
mom gets to take care of it, or something.
I gue ,
I got to take care of a friend of mine's dog.
He's just got a puppy
he was out of town last weekend
of course the dog is not trained for anything yet,
it was, go over there and clean up after the dog,
that's exciting.
a major chore, keep up with it.
kids kind of,
fun part and work.
I think it's really important to if you get a pet that they're spayed neutered so that, we're not just going on with this pet population and having to,
just get rid of them.
kind of gripes on me some,
I don't know.
going to have a pet,
More and more people are,
and not have it neutered or spayed you need to be willing to, deal with the consequences,
take care of the offspring
I think,
when I was growing up we had cats
just seeing miracle of birth, neat thing experience as a kid and understand,
I think that's really true.
it was a real positive thing,
on the other hand you don't want to, be one of these people that dumps the kittens off on the side of the road,
they're, getting old now,
it's time to get rid of them.
I think our community is a lot more conscious now though too,
that's good too.
I think that's all I have to say.
have a good night.
good talking to you.
All right,
bye bye.
what kind of ex ,
do you have children?
we have one that's seventeen, one that's fifteen, and one that's just now six.
we had kind of a hard time finding someplace (( )) we could put Michael's (( goods )) ,
his birthday is the first of September,
he was going to school at five.
he started the first grade when he was five
first grade when he was five years old.
you had trouble finding somewhere for him to be before he was five.
we could,
we tried to find him someplace where he could learn something.
it was,
mediocre expensive,
it wasn't really that expensive,
it's really hard to find someplace where you can send your child and expect him to learn something.
To learn something.
, even not only toddlers but, (( even )) your older children.
It's hard to find anywhere they're really going to learn something.
you do have to pay, if you,
the better the place, the more you're going to pay.
parents pay when they stay home with them anyway .
very true.
my wife works
it costs us more for her to stay home more than it does for him to go to the baby sitter
We try to,
If I had any children hope that I'll be in a position to stay home with my child because I'm not real, trusting , people,
I don't know,
especially today.
I work in the news business
I just see different things all the time,
people are just crazy these days.
They're crazy
I don't,
it long time to just trust someone as a friend,
much less to, trust someone child.
we took our time
we checked it out,
we found a preschool for him.
through other folks work,
I work at T I.
through other folks where we worked we found a nice preschool
it was actually at a licensed preschool,
we, had those requirements,
I guess that's the best way, to get,
recommendations from your friends or,
I know,
family members.
I don't think I would have left him anywhere that would,
I would have stayed home with him first,
before I left him somewhere that,
they still have unlicensed baby sitters running around up here
I don't think I'd take that chance.
I think it's out of sight or out of mind,
for less than,
for more than,
that these people,
a minute or so.
not that they're going to abuse your child or anything,
you never know.
you just have to be sure that they're going to be watching them,
that they wouldn't let them drink something or, eat something off the floor,
just simple things,
that can be harmful.
as far as (( )) child abuse is these days you never know,
you don't know who you can trust,
and who you can't,
Then you hear so much, on the news about, child care places
also, senior care facilities, you hear abuse.
senior care, is getting real bad.
don't know,
you almost want to, spend a couple of weeks in class with your child just to see how it is or something.
you have no children at all.
I don't.
Do you miss that part in your life
twenty three
still have a little bit of time,
it's just not in the cards for me right now
I'm trying to get my career going.
I imagine,
working in the news production,
back to the subject,
we should have discussed this earlier,
it's tough,
it really is,
it's hard to find good child care,
it's hard to find someplace where you can leave your child and trust that he's,
going to be fine all day long.
you brought up a good point,
about learning,
you just don't want a baby sitter
would hope that maybe they'd come home and know some of their A B C's or something,
get them,
doing real well,
it has paid off for him.
He's in first grade now,
he's, got a second grade reading level and a fourth grade math level.
those early ages when his mom and dad are at work,
and he's actually in child care in a preschool not,
just child care,
we could have sent him to anybody,
there's a lot people at work that would have baby sat him sending him to a preschool where he actually learns something,
has paid off not only for us,
attitude is I think a little bit,
tall for a six year old
Did you take this same, route with your other two children?
were outside my marriage,
I don't know.
I was wondering how,
I would say, no,
all my children,
really good,
I guess, no,
he learns from the older boys too
it helps that he has older brothers,
just to have role models and things like that.
in one way we're kind of lucky because they're all boys,
in another way we're not so lucky because we don't have another woman in the house for my wife to share,
we faced that too
he learns quite a bit,
he learned quite a bit nursery school
he learned quite a bit from the older boys,
he's excelled
it's paying off for him,
it really is.
That's excellent.
he is pretty smart,
sometimes he's a little bit smart mouthed,
he is smart ,
what kid isn't ,
these days,
really nice to know that you can find someplace,
I don't know, how it is down there in Waco,
in Lubbock we have a few that you can send your children to
they can actually learn something instead of just being baby sat.
Do they have any kind of program at T I or wherever your wife works,
not in,
some (( in )) kind of day care?
We just,
I know putting that into a lot of, corporations now.
they're trying to.
The federal government is trying to (( intercede )) on that too,
we don't get,
maybe that will be an option for,
it would be nice, there,
then foresee that being just a baby sitting thing not much learning but,
there's not,
kind of somebody to just watch your kid while your at work.
we sent Michael the first few years different teachers all the time,
girls were there in the morning
some substitute teachers in the afternoon,
they actually taught him something instead of just watching him all day.
(( )) they had a group of kids
they put on skits
they put on plays,
they did the Halloween thing,
and the Valentine's Day things
was important to us,
took a good look at it and made sure it was going to go that way.
Do you think it would have been better for him to have, maybe one continuous teacher, somebody that he could,
get attached to
is it better the other way with a lot of different,
is a task that belongs to his parents.
I don't think he needed to be attached to too, even though he did,
he attached himself to a couple of those,
I think his attachments at home
he gets the idea of what school is for
I have different teachers,
this person can teach me one thing and this person me another
I really can't say that it's important for him to attach himself to anybody.
He did well,
another child I can't say that.
Because I don't have that experience.
each child is individual,
(( in life )) learning and things.
I don't have that experience,
I can't say that,
he did well,
I don't think we made too many mistakes.
it sounds good,
We tried hard.
sounds like he's doing real well.
he's doing real well.
he learned from it
that was the most important thing that we wanted was for him to learn not just to sit there and be baby sat all day.
baby sat sounds to me like, you're here, I guess I'll watch you when I get time.
maybe I'll clean my house, maybe I'll cook you lunch,
maybe I won't,
they'll probably sit him in front of the television,
while they do other things,
I don't,
I don't allow that when he's at home
we had a good experience,
we really did well.
that's good,
that's good.
served better than we did,
from it,
sure we gained from it,
because we were allowed to continue our employment and,
continue our family
I think in the long run he gained from it just being somewhere where we learned something,
That's great.
instead of just sitting around watching T V,
and playing all day.
it's important.
That's probably what I'll try and look for whenever I do have my children,
I don't know when that will be,
just really look into,
take me a long time to find somewhere I'm sure,
just because just want to be, I want to be so positive that, my children are okay,
as well as the other children in the center,
his Mom didn't go back to work until, when he was six months old.
we just didn't want to dump him somewhere,
and make him feel like he wasn't wanted.
we wanted his center of attention at home
we did what we could
worked out real well,
I'm glad,
It's difficult these day,
we were so careful.
a lot more difficult these days because you have both parents working a lot of times,
you have to find day care,
whereas, here,
Most of the time now it's a necessity,
you can't afford,
I'm not making seventy or eighty thousand dollars a year
it's pretty tough.
No choice,
child care's a necessity, whereas years ago, the husband basically worked and the wife,
basically stayed home.
was allowed to stay home
there was a few families outside of that where dad stayed home and mom worked but not very many that I know of when I was growing up,
I'm forty now
when I was a kid Mom was always at home.
we didn't,
I think that has a lot to do with all children how they learn and things just because the basic family breaking,
it is,
it is,
the basic family is not there anymore.
I'll agree with that, it is.
not there.
I think that plays a big part a child's learning and, you know, what they can and cannot do in child care.
I don't think,
let's start with you .
the last movie I saw was the FIVE HEARTBEATS
I liked it a lot because it had a lot of music in it.
FIVE HEARTBEATS?
was in that.
It's, it's, Robert Townsend movie.
don't know all the actors or anything,
a lot of music a lot of old songs, things like that.
When was it out?
it's still out now,
it came out I guess about a month or, about a month and half ago, something like that.
It's about a Black singing group.
it was called the DELLS,
it was kind of like just about their,
their life, and their, history and things like that and how they went from stardom to nonstardom.
that was pretty good.
I enjoyed,
I saw DANCES WITH WOLVES.
Have you seen that?
I saw that one,
that was pretty good.
that won best picture, I think.
Costner got best director.
right now Kevin Costner, he's starring in everything.
He's doing the Kennedy movie that's coming out,
there's one,
Another Kennedy movie, .
starring Kevin Costner,
let me see,
what else.
he's doing some other movie,
I can't,
I think ROBIN HOOD, that's it,
the ROBIN HOOD coming out
he's going to be in also.
let me see,
what else have I seen.
What have you seen?
One comes to mind here
I not sure about the name, has Meryl Streep
what was the name of that?
the ba ,
the premise of the story is that, after you die you go to a place called Judgment City.
I know what you're talking about.
I can't remem ,
It's called REVIEWING MY LIFE, or something like that.
I didn't get to see that.
YOUR LIFE.
that's it,
DEFENDING YOUR LIFE,
an excellent movie,
it's pretty entertaining,
Let's see,
what else have I seen lately,
One of my favorite movies, it's not one that I haven't seen,
I, w ,
it's not a late movie.
HOME ALONE.
FATAL ATTRACTION .
It's probably my all time,
not all time favorite,
one of my favorites,
that I can watch over and over.
Ye ,
di ,
did you ever see HOME ALONE?
I never did,
heard it was really good,
I've just haven't gone out to see it.
good one, too.
Was that pretty funny?
it's pretty good,
somehow just never made it to see that,
I need to see it.
(( )) I can't believe I'm just drawing a blank, because, I've s ,
FATAL ATTRACTION, I don't know why I like that movie so much,
I guess it was so much suspense.
I like suspense.
That kind of reminds me
did you ever see, this is going way back, JAGGED EDGE.
on that order.
was a good one too,
Certainly is.
I liked the woman that played in that,
I forgot what her name is now.
Anne Archer the wife in FATAL ATTRACTION,
she played in, narrow margin which was a little more recent,
that was kind of another suspense type, Alfred Hitchcock type thriller.
That was good.
God, I guess I haven't seen too many movies lately.
I need to,
I haven't seen a whole lot either,
I know I'm drawing a blank on what I've seen.
it's hard for me to get to movies now because it's getting so expensive,
rather rent.
I know
because you go in there and you spend six bucks a ticket,
then you end up spending another six dollars on food.
that's just for a bucket of popcorn,
a pop,
gets pretty,
God forbid you should want something to drink with it,
if I,
if I take a date,
cost me, twenty bucks, easy.
I don't know.
or something with that.
I was going to say, can find certain restaurants that are nice,
and have good food for thirty dollars.
It's almost more fun
it's almost more fun really to rent movies. just kind of stay at home, maybe.
the problem is you always have to wait until they're out.
that's true too.
that's what dealing with.
then you can make your popcorn and be comfortable.
That's true,
that is true.
that's about all the movies I've seen recently .
I ought to open the paper here because I know I've seen a few that played.
I just can't come up with any names here,
been to one for a little while,
Did you ever see KINDERGARTEN COP?
I never did.
That was pretty good.
Was that Arnold Schwarzenegger?
There's a movie I do want to see,
I haven't seen it,
what is it,
Oka ,
KISS BEFORE DYING.
whose in that?
pretty suspenseful.
Another one I saw is called the OBJECT OF BEAUTY.
I don't that,
as much as, DEFENDING YOUR LIFE,
all right, kind of funny.
what else has been on and about.
Are you looking in the paper?
I'm trying to,
I wanted to get to the SILENCE OF THE LAMBS,
I hear that,
that was great.
did you see that?
that might be one of my all time favorites too,
that was an excellent movie.
It was pretty scary because I was visiting a V A Hospital, near to where I live
they were saying that some of the patients there, you can't leave by themselves, because they'll make a weapon out of anything,
out of a piece of paper, they can kill somebody,
this guy in SILENCE OF THE LAMBS Hannibal Lector, that kind of person,
they couldn't leave him alone
what was so scary about the movie,
Because he was such an awesome character,
really fas ,
he was very dangerous,
you were kind of on his side because he was so fascinating.
they couldn't leave him alone at all.
they found out what happened when they did leave him alone one time,
I won't tell you that, just in case you see the movie.
I'll probably try it in a little while here.
very good.
it's been out for a while.
I'm not sure when it will be hitting video stores,
it should be a while yet, though.
Have you heard anything on, OUT FOR JUSTICE.
I haven't heard anything about it.
I don't like Steven Seagal things,
very many other movies out?
He's had OUT FOR JUSTICE
there was one right before that with a similar title
macho title.
That's why, I,
Because it's a macho movie.
I just don't like the,
it is,
don't like that a lot.
I don't watch a lot of Arnold Schwarzenegger or anything like that either.
Speaking of that I think TERMINATOR TWO is supposed to be out.
that might be good, though,
that might be good.
I don't know,
I've enjoyed a lot of his movies,
action filled, and a little bit of humor,
I guess, I'm not fond of the action packed movie,
where they're always chasing or fighting,
I like the movies that make you think.
did you ever see, SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY?
I haven't seen that yet,
that's something I really should have seen.
Was that good,
did you see it?
heard much lately.
I just remember when it first came out that it had kind of mixed reviews.
a friend of mine saw it
she said it was okay,
it wasn't anything spectacular.
You expect more out of, Julia Roberts, though.
the previews looked so good that I wanted to see it
I never did,
Did you ever see the original F X movie.
Yea ,
I saw half of it,
I remember I was in school, I saw half of it
I fell asleep
everyone else watched it .
because I was going to say I always enjoyed that,
I remember that movie,
it was,
I got in to it,
they have X TWO out,
I don't know if,
I really need to go see the original one,
I'm sure it was a good movie,
probably had a test that day, or something,
I don't know.
it was one of those that has a lot of twists in it,
it's, it's,
I can't put it exactly on the lines of the JAGGED EDGE,
kind of on that end,
you get these twists
it's usually pretty good,
though, that movies are losing their luster.
What's that?
I think movies are losing their attractiveness, just to a lot of people.
I think,
I don't know,
because of the cost
I think just losing its originality or something.
I don't,
I can't it.
it doesn't seem like it's as big, rage to get the movie theater as it used to be.
That's probably true.
just you see the same story lines, different characters
I don't know,
it's hard to say.
I know I don't,
I don't keep up with it,
I don't try to
just for that reason, does cost a lot,
why go out and see something right away,
you kind of wait
if something gets really good reviews, maybe you'd finally go spend the twelve bucks,
to go to it.
I haven't been opening for, ages,
Just because.
I guess we're set.
Current events.
I get my current events basically from news, just because I watch,
Television news?
pretty much a lot of television,
Is it, C N N or HEADLINE NEWS or just local,
I watch a little bit of everything.
I like to tune C N N because, you can tune in any time of day and pretty much get the update on,
in about five or ten minutes.
I think news today, it's kind of losing its importance.
on radio, if you hear any news at all, it's like two seconds.
really quickly,
on regular stations.
on commercial radio, I guess, tend to get more of my news from national public radio of the morning on the way to work,
that's good, too,
or evening on the way to school
I like K R L D.
I don't,
I don't see much T V mostly when I'm in school,
I do here.
where do you go to school?
University of Texas at Dallas.
I went to U T at Austin.
I'm a news reporter
should get all , my news T V.
I do tend to throw on HEADLINE NEWS when I'm doing things around the house and just let it play,
and listen,
I usually don't intentionally. Although intentionally turn on the television to watch news.
I don't intentionally turn on the radio to listen to the news.
If it comes on, I just happen to hear it.
I will intentionally buy a newspaper to look at the news.
all I ever get out of the paper is a Sunday paper
that's true.
I read the comics.
That's about it.
That's about it,
The Sunday paper, it's so full of stuff,
you pick your favorite section,
the rest,
you throw away.
Although you paid, what, almost two dollars now to get it
I like to listen to, national public radio on the way to work because variety,
they're throwing in a little news and a little bit of other stuff.
tends to get like HEADLINE NEWS if you listen to it for an hour (( )) .
pretty good coverage on there?
it usually is.
They throw in interviews and commentaries.
It's kind of like getting a newspaper.
There's a lot of
sections to it
present different sides of things.
I find like on K R L D,
I like to listen to that,
each story is no more than two or three lines,
they spend a little more time,
they cover the headlines,
they go into a lot of the issues and
things where spend five or ten minutes discussing something and,
that would probably be better.
interviewing people.
Especially when you look for the, popular radio stations like mostly the music stations, news pretty much nonexistent.
They have teeny weeny news,
only in the morning, I guess, there's a little bit.
I haven't listened to a top forty radio station in so long I wouldn't know.
let's see,
I guess I get some kinds of other, business related news through trade journals and things
The only reason I get trade journals is if I'm looking for a job or something .
Right .
Which is what I'm doing now.
a lot of people are.
trying to get out of wherever they are
news is,
I'm wondering where it's going.
You know how,
I think it will be except maybe through the paper.
I know the newspaper used to be kind of the only source for news.
now, kind of your final choice.
You watch,
first you go to C N N, then you go to radio or something like that.
where nobody wants,
I think it,
to sit down and read.
takes a lot more time to read something,
you've got news,
So much more effort.
bombarding you from everywhere now.
turn on the T V, turn on the radio.
I think that soon the paper may be kind of the only source again.
Why is that?
I don't,
just because thinking that getting so short on radio.
have two or three,
I know in Dallas you can probably get all news radio stations out of I don't how many popular radio stations.
on television, you have just the news at six and ten.
I just,
see that dwindling
I find it hard to believe that people will go back to reading over television, just given the way society is.
I enjoy reading,
people would rather turn on the tube and,
That's true, too,
flip through the channels, and get the headline news at thirty minutes of,
Than sit down and take the effort to read
the paper.
they don't have to go get one,
One thing I like about the paper, as opposed to television is that, report, because I'm in television, I have to get the basic, the main facts and that's it.
That's all you have time for.
Whereas in the paper, I like to read the articles because they get every side, every single side,
every point they make,
it's all there.
that's why I like, national public radio
because they get on one of these little things,
they give you headlines that are brief,
they touch on what's going on.
they'll get into something and really explore it.
It's a lot more informative than, quick, half hour news shows that
they tell you what they want you to hear.
that's what we do.
it's like each story is thirty seconds,
it's like you really have to tell as much as you can which is not much in that amount of time.
it will probably get shorter and shorter as the years go by I think.
I don't know.
there's so much going on in the world.
Communication, expands the world now.
There's too much going on.
You can't afford to give more than a couple of seconds here and there.
I think that is one good thing, one great thing, about news,
we saw it during the war just now, is that we got all the information within minutes,
Whatever happened, we knew about it about the same time that they knew about it.
the question is,
I guess, there's a lot of debate about censorship and
and what we're really seeing.
the true story
is it a
little bit biased.
even though we do get the story right away, they were censored as to what they
could tell us.
all we had to sit here ask is what aren't they telling us,
was pretty scary.
I talked to one woman,
she said that she didn't want to know what was going on because if she had a son over in Saudi Arabia, she wouldn't want to know, that they're bombing this and that's going on.
at the same time, I talked to another woman,
she was so happy to know because she lived through Vietnam.
she didn't know what was happening at that time.
she was so happy to get the information,
there's just a lot of different opinions on that.
I like know what's going on.
Sometimes I think there's just a little bit too much.
you get in the habit of, like I say, turn on Headline News
it will play over and over ,
you just tune it out because it's the same thing
too, a lot of times I think, especially on television they blow things completely out of proportion.
they tend to,
dramatize things.
this Kennedy thing.
It's just, everywhere you turn.
what kind of shoes did he wear on the night?
it's just like, okay, this is ridiculous.
who cares?
what are you doing?
Sitting on a computer?
I heard the little clicking.
Trying to do some C programming.
it was nice talking to you.
Okay .
Take care.
Take care.
Bye bye.
There a lot of places to camp in Dallas?
not necessarily in Dallas,
it's a very short drive to areas near here.
Do you do a lot of camping?
I have done camping in the past.
I can't remember when the last time I actually went camping was.
It was, several years ago,
I did most of my camping in the mountains.
that must have been fun though.
it is.
I enjoy hiking and camping.
We went to the (( ))
. I have, some land there,
handy station yourself there on the land
and then make trips up into the mountains for backpacking and hiking overnight camping.
that sounds fun.
Do you do most of yours in tents?
we've done ours,
I've only been camping twice.
one of them I don't really consider camping.
It was on the edge of the lake
it was at a camp.
I don't like those camping grounds
where, you got R V beside you and then another people in tents beside you.
I just don't care for that.
I agree with you.
I think it's much nicer when you can really get out far enough away where,
that you can't see people
right out the window.
it doesn't,
four years ago,
it was about four years ago, my little boy was three months old
the first time I left him we went overnight camping.
we went, and we found this little peninsula out in the middle of nowhere by the lake.
we had a ball.
Just sat out there with our,
we didn't even use tents then,
we just had, sleeping bags
and fire going.
we fried potatoes and bacon and everything for breakfast the next morning.
Doesn't that always taste so much better,
it did,
it did.
when you're out like that.
I didn't even think about frying potatoes.
my sister in law, she's always done a lot of camping.
she's good.
She'd think about bringing a rake so you can rake your area out.
That's right.
If you don't you'll find every rock on it when you
put your , when you put your bag down.
sh ,
always prepared,
she brought everything from, like I said, toilet paper to the rake.
The only thing we'd had to do, we had to go out looking for some kind of a grill,
we seen this old refrigerator that somebody had dumped
we broke the, I guess it's the freezing component
we broke that out of there and put it over our, hole.
what a clever idea
I wouldn't have thought about that.
it held our pan and, the potatoes and stuff.
We had a good time.
that's a good idea.
we're still waiting to go again.
if you get a chance,
there are some really nice camping areas, up in the Wichitas, which is in Oklahoma
and, Arkansas.
I can't remember the name.
on the Oklahoma Arkansas border.
it won't take but quick look at a map to find where those mountains are,
I took a drive up through there, as a matter of fact, last September, just took the drive through to see what was there.
They have some wonderful camping areas there.
Beautiful, beautiful country.
I love to swim,
I like to get out by a lake
or a, somewhere close
where we can swim.
Tawakoni is a pretty nice place
we had a two bedroom mobile home there,
the boys still liked to throw their sleeping bags out by the lake and
build a little fire and roast their marshmallows until the mosquitos bit
and then they came in.
How old are your boys?
they're grown now.
they don't go camping with you.
They go camping on their own.
Once you start them, they enjoy it all their lives.
I haven't taken my little boy yet.
I'm afraid to get him out.
He is so fearless, it terrifies me.
don't be concerned.
There's much less for them to get hurt on camping than there is elsewhere.
Think so?
it's the water he's not scared of.
He'll go out into it until it's up to his nose
and then try to (( tread )) back .
it's easy to keep him occupied though on land.
I know that I took my kids, we'd go out,
I've them walk with me along the lakefront
we'd have a little contest finding the tiniest shell, and finding the biggest shell.
we'd hunt pine cones
we climbed some, pinon pines one year and gathered the cones so that we could eat the pine nuts.
we did a lot of naturalist work when we were out.
we searched for (( ))
we ate the wild plants
we gathered wild berries,
it's really,
mountains can accommodate you if you know what to find.
If you know what to look for.
I had my boys build their own little three leg camp stools by cutting a branch off the tree and binding them together with bark.
that sounds so neat.
we cooked in a pot.
I baked them a cake, right there on a camp fire.
They were so impressed.
I used a tire chain and the bottom of a Dutch oven.
I'm impressed .
My mother in law
they've always done a lot of camping.
I grew up in Louisville, Kentucky
there wasn't,
I don't know,
we just didn't get out.
My mother and my father split up when we were young,
my mother wasn't into that,
that's who I stayed with.
we didn't do much outdoors stuff, except swimming
we went swimming a lot.
my baby's getting sick.
I know.
if our time is up we can quit.
I've got to clean her up .
I'm sorry,
appreciate it.
I enjoyed talking.
Thank you.
You bet,
bye bye.
Bye bye.
I hope you know more about the subject of baseball
where they're going than I do beca ,
I know a little bit about it.
I'm not a die hard fan
enjoy the,
I like the Boston Red Sox myself.
of all the sports I like baseball the best.
However, I haven't been to a baseball game in years,
I have kept, my eye on the Rangers.
I guess they were doing pretty good up to a point,
they kind of fell on their face .
their biggest point of interest has been Nolan Ryan not the rest of the team lately,
They've got a one man show going there.
Right .
Which is interesting,
it's amazing.
really (( call down )) a salary .
They're so astronomical I can't even imagine
that kind of money.
You know it's just, phenomenal .
fortunately the Red Sox, last time I saw the paper earlier this week, were in first place and doing quite well.
I've been really busy at work this past week
normally on my way into work I'll pick up a newspaper
i ,
every day I'll have a newspaper at work,
when I take a break, I'll take a look at the newspaper.
this week I've been so busy I didn't even bother to stop .
I understand.
I understand.
next week I'll get back to my normal routine.
you are involved with T I s, speech, recognition?
not really.
How did you find out about it?
I work at (( )) laboratory.
I'm an officer in the Air Force,
I see.
they have a speech lab across the hall from us.
the speech laboratory does some work with, T I,
I see.
not in my office
in my division they do,
quite a bit of speech work.
that's good.
that's interesting.
the topics are interesting,
they run a whole (( gamut )) subjects,
I think we can address every topic,
the depth of knowledge is quite different.
when they chose baseball,
I can understand baseball,
I don't understand football.
it's such a rugged game that seems to be too physical for my, interest .
I prefer to,
I never used to really like watching football that much
more and more these days like a football game,
I've always liked baseball.
prefer to watch,
I guess I'm one of the few people that also prefers baseball to football.
much rather go to a baseball game than to a football game.
can relate to baseball because I used to play baseball.
I can't relate to football because I've never,
played football don't, have any interest,
I said if I ever had a son, he would not play football.
I had four daughters
that wasn't a question,
now I have a grandson that gung ho for, football.
that doesn't please Grandma too much.
because the injuries can be very, very devastating.
there's injuries in a lot of sport.
I understand that,
I think they happen more in football.
I think the odds are cut down.
know they can get hurt in baseball too.
The bat is a very heavy object, can do a lot of damage
I think that they have lower (( racial )) of injuries,
ratio of injuries in baseball.
it's true.
would say that baseball tends to be one of the less,
Because the ,
troublesome sports,
for some people it's just,
A love for them.
not so much that
even in baseball you can,
when I played baseball when I was growing up, I had trouble, just throwing the ball because always very strong
I could , th ,
when I was young I could throw harder,
than my, ligaments and all that should have been allowed to.
I see.
I was always throwing my arm out and,
having trouble.
was a catcher
I was constantly throwing back to the pitcher and then down to second base and all and that kind of stuff.
that was always a problem for me was the constant throwing,
sustain any permanent, injury with that?
I did that wrestling .
always been quite an athlete and doing different things
the other thing was I'd never really let injuries stop me.
interestingly enough you mentioned football, is like,
now I won't play football anymore because of separated shoulder wrestling,
injury wrestling,
as long as I let it heal, it never really bothered me
then playing football this fall,
separated it again
it seemed to be,
the straw that broke the camels back,
a broken arm that I had since I was three.
It was never set right.
I liked bowling kind of a relaxing sport.
one of the men that was league, noticed, my broken arm and the way my ball would do.
he says, let me show you how to use your arm to your advantage.
he brought me up from like a hundred and fifteen, I had my high game of two eighty seven.
My God.
. it was really funny, that he would tell me where to stand and how to hold my arm how to, follow through with my,
(( addressing that )) , to put the ball,
the, pins.
that was interesting.
got a lot of, recognition from bowling league, I guess.
I'm not sure where all my pins came from,
that was quite awhile ago
never pursued it.
a lot of people said, you should have turned pro.
I thought, no,
not m ,
m ,
I don't,
my love wasn't there for the game.
I liked to method of, entertainment and I,
outside of that, no.
I didn't.
still, I like to bowl,
I don't have, Jack standing behind me to tell me what to do .
Are any leagues now?
I'm not.
No, F
at T I they have a junior league achievement
it's true bowling
I've never, shared that with them.
I would have to brush up on my bowling before I even tried to, win a lot of money for the junior achievement,
that's the only thing that I would, be (( )) to do.
my grandmother has been bowling for, gosh, maybe thirty, forty years.
I don't know,
a long time.
got to be,
Still carries a good average?
she does ,
what's it been doing up there?
It's real dry up here.
We need rain really bad.
All the farmers,
th ,
it's good for hay.
You know all the farmers got their first cut of hay and everything,
they're going to need some rain to get the second cut.
working for a lady who has a strawberry field,
if we don't have rain, she's going to lose a lot of money.
my goodness.
we have been drenched.
Oh .
We have had so much rain for May and June that we've got all the, weather people down here really confused.
it's probably,
It's usually dry down there, isn't it?
Right now,
by now it's usually,
it's quit raining, by at least a month.
it's still,
we're still having April showers,
I hope they come,
for June.
this way.
I don't know it came from
it's been really,
we got a lot of,
we're in central Texas
it feels like we live in Houston.
it rained today
it just kind of steamed everything up,
it's been great because we haven't had to use our sprinkler system,
hard to plan anything outside just because they show up out of nowhere they're gone.
We've had some with really, really high winds that have trashed trees and,
everything else.
It's just,
up here with their gardens they're not going to have much of a garden this year because it's so dry.
I hope you get some of that.
We got enough.
We have had plenty,
we're still, forecast for more.
getting rain then?
I'm not real sure.
I think a lot of this is coming out of,
I think what's happen , of
it's coming out of Canada,
Out of the Gulf?
it's meeting what's coming out of the Gulf.
it's just causing chaos
summer rains, electrical storms all that,
we've moved our yard I think three or four times in the last two or three weeks.
my gosh.
just because it just keeps growing and growing and growing
week it just rained, thunderstormed for a day straight
you couldn't get out there.
You just couldn't get out there.
By the time you finally got out there where your lawn mower wouldn't sink, we were,
lawn mower broke .
now we need,
we could use two days straight of rain.
It's really drying here.
what always works for me is if I water my plants or we wash the car, it usually rains.
If not that night, the next day .
Does it?
I was telling everyone, hang your clothes out on the line
it's surely going to rain.
Whenever you hang your clothes out on the line it always rains .
We've had real hot weather.
Hotter than usual?
let me think.
I got out of school in May.
In March I was wearing shorts.
I was wearing shorts in March up at college,
we, w ,
what they said is that this area has had its summer weather in the spring.
Is what they said what happened.
I hope that,
I guess that means you're going to get a double long summer.
I don't know.
Because you surely wouldn't get,
I hope that doesn't mean we're going to get an early winter.
I wouldn't think so.
I wouldn't,
not as early as it came.
your talking September, maybe.
That's a little early.
Still the,
I was wearing shorts in March.
You know it was nippy
it was still in the seventies.
high sixties low seventies in March.
in New Jersey last October
it was hotter there than it was here.
It was just like a heat wave.
I was like, I want to go home .
we haven't,
Because, packed to cool off, brought shorts and sweaters and everything
we just died.
my gosh.
It was really hot,
I like it here.
trade it for snow any day.
the snow
I like to watch it fall,
I just like it where it's deep enough, but not too deep.
I can handle a vacation in it
my husband is from New Jersey
he wouldn't go back either.
He did all the,
shoveling and everything else.
He said it was a pain.
isn't it weird at Christmas time without snow?
I don't think so.
see last year we had snow at Christmas time.
weird because we had snow .
It's like, wow, it actually fell on the right day.
it's not.
In fact, we're used to running around in, spring clothes in December,
when it throws in a real cool winter, we get broken pipes all that kind of stuff because Texas built for
real cold weather for long periods of time.
it's real dry down there.
You don't have the humidity either, do you?
were we are.
Now in Houston and stuff where no hairsprayer works.
It's so humid at times,
here just about right.
pretty dry and, not too dry where,
it hurts to breathe,
we're just about right.
We're just having rain,
late rain has made it kind of uncomfortable.
muggy, huh?
the humidity real high.
I like it.
we're right in a good stop because get hundreds in the summer,
it's a dry heat
it's not really as hot and muggy as it would be being over a hundred plus ninety degree humidity,
ninety percent humidity,
that's what's bad up here is when we do get the real, hundred and the high nineties, we have the humidity to go with it,
you're real mucky
legs stick together just from walking
I know what,
we like it where we're at.
If it's not a whole bunch of everything at once
type stuff.
it's interesting when it gets really cold here
people forget that they're, live in Texas
they don't know how to drive in snow
I wouldn't trade it for anything .
that's good.
I was born in Texas
I visited other areas,
I'm just a sun person I think.
I've gotten used to it.
I don't know .
I guess that's really about all.
weather is not real hard to talk about .
It doesn't last real long either.
I thought the weather is the last thing you talk about,
in this case it's the only thing to talk about.
Michelle, it's great talking to,
the last movie that I have seen,
a couple of months.
I saw, SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY
I saw that one.
and FLATLINERS.
Those were the last two that I've seen.
What was the second one?
I didn't see that one.
Did you see those because of, Julia Roberts, or for, the subject matter of the two?
it was just,
someone had,
I had seen the advertisement for FLATLINERS on T V,
I thought I'd like it,
one of my friends who went to see SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY, she told me to go.
It was good.
that's why I saw that one.
. I've,
I saw SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY
seen, (( )) , just recently, WHAT ABOUT BOB?
I haven't gotten to see real recent ones.
that one is, it's cute but kind of far out comedy.
I like comedies better than I do dramas.
I, am not one for the,
I don't need the suspense movies or the,
the movies with lots of, the horror movies trying to shake you out of your chair.
Did you care for SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY?
I'm not sure .
saw it because my wife wanted to see it.
on the other hand, I'm not sure I would have gone otherwise,
having gone,
it really wasn't on a theme that I was, that into,
as I say, I prefer the light movies that,
my style of entertainment comedy, primarily
and then into action films.
I didn't care for the movie myself.
I didn't really care for the movie either.
you kind of have to like to be, drawn to this point where you aren't sure what's going to happen.
on likewise then, did you see PRETTY WOMAN?
Do you enjoy that one?
it was interesting,
I felt that one was a bit farfetched.
in that,
I'm trying to think of the other one I saw recently, the one on, DEFENDING YOUR LIFE.
I haven't even heard of that one.
that was one where,
it's kind of like,
to me it's somewhat like PRETTY WOMAN.
story line,
if you accept a few of the basic starting points, I guess the rest falls in place.
it was hard to accept that, this, multimillionaire wheeler dealer find himself and allow himself to get into that situation.
I really liked PRETTY WOMAN.
I just,
you just kind of went with it.
Like you said, you had to accept the beginning of it and just kind of go.
It's sort of a modern CINDERELLA type of story.
FLATLINERS, it's a drama,
I don't usually like them,
I really enjoyed it.
don't know,
it was kind of,
it made you think a lot
I think.
Did you see GHOST?
did you care for that one?
that was,
I enjoyed that one.
I guess hate to be too surprised in a movie,
in that one pretty well guess where it was,
going to end up.
You weren't sure exactly how it would get there,
you knew where it would end up.
I didn't,
I thought it was an okay movie,
it wasn't something that I would enjoy seeing twice or three times.
I didn't think so,
I really didn't care for the ending of it.
I thought it was just of like you didn't know this was going to happen,
I don't know,
of course, a bunch of girls had told me and warned me,
they said, it's a real tearjerker," and da, da, da, da, da.
Meanwhile, I sat through the movie and said supposed to start crying, .
I didn't really,
whenever she starts crying .
I didn't really find it to be a tearjerker .
do you go to many movies more than once?
if I see them more than once, I see them on video.
I never pay to see one more than once.
like you said, enjoy the comedies a lot better.
In fact, that's where I've seen most of my movies, have been on video.
these days it's,
You see it on video just as soon as it is on the movie screen.
go to them within the first four weeks, the movie may have, left town, never to show up again until it comes back in video.
unless a movie is popular and stays around, you probably will see it on video these days more likely than at the movie.
we have,
I think just most people have V C R s now
we probably watch twice as many movies at home
as we do at movie theaters.
I saw one, it was a drama also,
I can't think of the name of it now, that,
it was a book before it came out in a movie,
it was a drama.
It wasn't a comedy.
Did you go to DANCES WITH WOLVES?
I wanted to see that.
I didn't get to.
hear on that one, that it's coming out a second time longer version
even though it was a long movie.
It's sort of the uncut version.
At least that was some of the rumors.
We'll have to see, because there was some talk about that.
maybe it will come out this fall.
we're sort of in the middle of the summer, season of a lot of new movies coming out,
then there's these, periods like early fall before Christmas or early spring when there's sort of a quiet period where if you bring something out again, it, will increase the revenues from the movie.
what movies are showing down there now?
actually have to get a newspaper out.
My approach to movies is I kind of hear about them,
I keep track of them a little,
ask me to name the ten that are out there right now,
I'd have to say, don't know.
just look at the newspaper before I decide to go
that's pretty much what I do.
know for sure that that one about,
what was that one about Bob?
it's kind of,
I think it's just,
WHERE'S BOB? or WHAT ABOUT BOB?
I think it's just playing now up here.
some of them, start in one area of the country,
if they it's,
guess first of all I'll just say we haven't done much, gardening.
We do lawn work all the time.
our gardening we lost,
remember the last two freezes,
I don't know how long you've been here .
I do .
we lost our bushes in those and have been waiting to plant new ones.
as far as our bushes, we don't have any
we do have some blackberry bushes.
they were really hearty and stayed on
we've done really well with them.
Did you plant those yourself?
they've been really good
the kids, I had to,
the first year I had to tell the kids not to pick them when they were red because they were supposed to be blackberries.
we go out,
hard to go out when it's this hot.
keep the weeds out of them keep them off the ground so the ants don't eat them.
they're okay.
That's nice.
love blackberries
when I was smaller, my family lived in Tennessee
there used to be wild blackberries that we'd go out and pick, my brother and I.
I don't have any down here.
we have some flowers that have,
they're just are real hearty also,
they're bold
they come up every year
they're getting too thick,
I need to go thin them out.
there's a,
I don't know what kind of flowers they are.
They're real common around here.
they look like a lily, sort of.
I think I know what they,
I can't remember what the name of them (( )) are either.
I think they're real pretty when it rains because their petals don't soak the rain in.
keep rain on the outside, little rain
they look real pretty after the rain.
I really like them
I need to get out do that.
as far as our grass, it grows crazy here.
It just keeps growing and growing
sometimes my husband does it
sometimes my son does it.
it just is,
I've lived in Utah my whole life
we can't seem to get ours green.
I don't know.
Down here, the grass?
(( )) we've had problems with our yard.
it was one big weed is what it was.
It was just horrible.
my neighbors on either side of me have beautiful lawns
we have this God awful ugly thing.
Crappy I know,
we have that too.
I know they must think, I wish those people would do something about their yard.
my husband got some new fertilizer and stuff, seems to be helping
he put it on the front yard
to see how, it would do and stuff before he put it on the backyard.
we've got a Great Dane in the back
she has eaten everything I have put out there.
She's eaten my crepe myrtle trees.
I know,
she's eaten the bushes.
I've tried to, I spent like eight hours planting this nice garden out there
I barricaded it up,
so she couldn't get into it.
I went and took a shower and looked back out there
she was already in it.
I was so mad.
Had somehow gotten in.
I can't do anything back
Because destroys it.
I've tried out in the front
like you said freeze that came.
I had I out front
it killed those too.
I'm just real discouraged with the whole thing.
I just don't even want to do anything.
other problem that we have,
it's funny because bushes on the ends of the house that I think are ugly, they lived
don't know.
happened to us.
We have these,
I wanted to go out and kill them too.
I know.
They had no right to live.
anyway, under our trees we get north sun
it looks like our trees don't have any grass under them.
I know.
Ours don't.
we just can't grow, grass underneath there.
I know,
we can't either.
I've got two good size cottonwood trees out in my front yard. one on either side of the yard.
they're big
(( )) they're real full and everything, in the summer time
killing everything underneath
where the leaves are shading the tree
toward the end of the summer, when everything starts dying off and whatnot and then the light can get through the tree, then the grass starts growing.
by then it's so late then the winter comes and it stops.
it's a never ending cycle.
It's a vicious cycle,
isn't it?
it really is.
It just really,
we've been trying to get something or to pull some grass underneath there whatnot.
I don't,
we've never done anything like this
we've been thinking, if we built up, a like trench thing around where our bushes were and filled it with a nice dirt
then maybe we could plant some flowers,
some new bushes in there that would live.
I think that we're going to try that.
that's pretty much what we have decided.
I have two long windows
I'm trying to decide whether to put bushes in front of them or not.
maybe just halfway up the window or something like that. So people can't see and hear too much .
Really .
C ,
I don't really have to worry about that that much because my sons' bedrooms are in the front
they've got mini blinds and stuff.
one is really in the flower bed part
the other one is out on the porch.
there's not really much I can do about that.
That's what our two rooms are on the front, too, with these long windows.
One is a bedroom for oldest son
one is, an office that my husband and I work in.
really don't like it too much because then the back of our house faces that,
the flowers are out by the back of the house,
that's why the front room is.
that's not too bad.
I like to look at the flowers.
They're pretty.
I do too,
that's why I look at my neighbors yard .
I don't have anything to look at
I look at theirs.
it's funny because, you try so hard I think sometimes to do our yard
it's like the wind blows everything whether the weeds from your yard to your neighbors or yours
to them
even if you did get it under control, it seems like in just a few months it would all be back
really a pain.
My husband works a lot
a lot,
It's hard to get out a lot and do that yard work.
. I'm,
it's usually me and the kids that go out and mow the yard
really do not appreciate having to go out there and do it.
I hate to mow the yard, more than anything else.
I hate to mow that yard.
I know.
not my favorite,
thing in the world either.
I'm glad I have an old enough son to do it for me now.
mine's getting there.
He helps,
he does half
I do half,
Pretty soon, though, by next year he should be able to do it all by himself.
Whether he likes it or not.
. that is one chore that we will pay him for, if he'll go do the yard work out, outside,
sure I'll be more then glad to pay him
if he'd just go out there and do it .
do it to where I don't have to go back out and redo it.
my only thing with him.
That's why I'm me now .
some of the things I like to do are,
I like to knit.
I knit sometimes,
I sew
I like to sew sometimes for my kids.
sew clothes for them every once in a while.
I make quilts.
that's the next project that I'd like to learn to do.
I do mostly hand needlework like cross stitch and crewel embroidery
beginning to get a little bored with cross stitch.
I was thinking maybe need to learn to quilt.
After a while, cross stitch, I th ,
I don't know.
I have
It gets boring.
to put it away
I have to bring it back.
I don't know why that is.
I don't know if it's looking at the little every time.
it reaches a point where it doesn't seem to be very challenging, I think.
that might be it.
I do
That might ,
yet, there's,
a lot of it in the car.
do you?
we commute from Plano to Dallas
I have nearly an hour both ways that I can really get a lot of work done
I bet.
I found that cross stitch is the easiest to do in the car.
I don't know that I could even think about quilting.
You have to have a pretty good frame, don't you, to
do any kind of quilting work?
I've not really done too much challenging, stuff.
can do it with needle and thread
get about five small stitches in, which is pretty good,
it's very long.
It's very tedious if you don't have a whole group, you're not finishing a quilt in a long time .
I bet.
it's such a lost art.
I like to just mostly do the tie quilts.
That's so much easier.
the other ones are very pretty.
we have a quilt on our bed that's,
instead of, yarn
they tied, ribbon into it.
it's real pretty.
I bet.
It's real pretty.
There's so many things I wish I had learned to do with my mother.
She had crocheted a full bedspread.
It's kind of a hobnail
looking thing.
when I look at it now,
I think why didn't I learn these crafts and skills from her because she could crochet and
do so many of the old things that aren't in vogue right now that people just don't know how to do.
did you say you could knit?
Haven't tried that either.
I was going to say because,
I want to learn to crochet.
Because if you could knit, you could crochet.
It's just like doing one handed as long as you learn how weave yarn in between your fingers on your left hand.
you just use your right hand with the hook.
that's not,
it's really not too difficult.
You could learn that, I'm sure
and pick that up.
can do any handicraft, you can learn to crochet.
It's not too difficult.
It's funny, when you were talking about sewing, I love to do anything by hand with a needle.
I'm totally intimidated if I sit down at a sewing machine.
I never learned,
I get real nervous whereas usually the other needlework stuff is relaxing to me.
Isn't that interesting.
I just have a phobia about not being able to actually sew.
I think that's really interesting.
yet, I think about,
you said you do a lot of needlework
there are some beautiful, just gorgeous patterns
that people do.
just think that, that's the arts that I think are really pretty.
a lot of people don't do that either.
it's hard to find the time.
wouldn't if I didn't have this car time ability probably
because at night if I sit down, I'm doing something with the kids or
just not sitting down at all .
That's true.
I always think, I can do this and watch T V or something
it seems like I always get my mind carried away to something else
it doesn't
quite work
I'm at the age where bifocals or trifocals would be necessary.
It's so I find myself putting glasses on watch T V and then taking them off to do needlework
I get frustrated doing that
. Just give it up.
I like to sketch.
sketch something, like if I see a picture, like, out of a book, I can sketch that
that's nice and everything,
it's funny,
draw it out of my own head
kind of thing.
I wish I could.
yet I can't do, craft, on wood.
I can't do that painting thing.
I'm the same way.
If I see something, I can copy it,
I certainly can't create.
I admire people that have that in their minds already.
me, too.
Me, too.
I know a woman who's just wonderful at that.
I look at it
you look at those things
you wish so badly that you could do them.
I guess, if you wanted to, you could take classes and learn.
I guess that's the only way I could do it.
sometimes, even with that. think you have to have some,
what kind of fishing do you do?
mostly, little fresh water fish,
mostly lake fishing like rainbow trout and stuff because I used to live in Utah.
down here I haven't fished much in Texas.
That's one of the few things I've ever fished for is rainbow trout.
they're really not,
I think they're good to eat.
kind of bait do you use to catch them?
just, usually worms, night crawlers.
Sometimes fish eggs.
Sometimes .
Fish eggs?
I didn't know that.
fish eggs.
there's this one kind of cheese that you can put on the end of a hook
it will stay relatively well .
I didn't know that.
That's a great way.
they really like that.
I think that would probably be a good way to catch catfish,
I have never caught catfish.
look, catfish,
personally I like to catch large mouth bass
and catfish because they fight the best .
Because they fight the best .
catfish will really just tear into anything like that, like liver
is that right?
or, cheese or anything that smells terrible .
in Amarillo did you fish any (( of this )) ?
I always used to go to my grandparents' in Oklahoma
they have the, Lake Texoma right next to them.
we used to catch some, sand bass off there's a Roosevelt Bridge
what we'd do is let the line all the way to the bottom and crank up,
turns on the
reel about six to twelve times
the fish would be sitting at different levels.
how about that.
you just leave it at that level
in no time something would hit it
you could pull them up two and three times in a row,
you had to find out what level, how many cranks they were off the bottom.
if you left it on the bottom, there was a good chance that you'd catch catfish.
of course, depending on how big your bait was, would be depending on what you caught.
I think that is really interesting.
that was a lot of fun.
My grandfather used to do that
we used to have a light at the top of the water.
He'd really spoiled me in that respect.
I think they're,
I wish I could go fishing here because I don't really know much about the fishing here.
I guess it would,
if you did it like you were just, saying, that's pretty much like rainbow trout.
You bait the hook,
you throw it in,
you troll it
a little bit
you wait
they troll it a little bit.
if you,
do you have any friends with ponds?
I don't .
if you can fi ,
even a lake.
seems like every time somebody's on the bank, all they want to do is throw it out just as far as they can
and, bring it in to you.
it's the opposite when you're fishing from a boat.
want to make it land right on the shore and then drag like a plastic worm
and just have it come into the water like regular animal fish
something coming off from the bank like they usually do .
you don't have to really get, fish from a boat, because they're actually right there at the shore.
I didn't used to be sold on plastic worms,
I am now .
You are now.
I've never used those.
That's really interesting.
It a slow reel
let it sit on the bottom,
the key is to always have your line tight.
that way you can feel when they're hitting it,
believe me you'll know the difference.
what kind of fish do you like the best to eat?
do you ?
. I've been fishing in ocean.
We're about three hours from the ocean.
I also like Spanish mackerel.
you catch blues
that's a different kind of fishing off the pier, too.
Have you ever fished off the pier?
I've done fishing like that
tell me where you'd catch crappie.
neighbor has gone before
done that,
the best thing for crappie is those little spinner baits jigs.
they have like yellow, fuzz on a hook, that kind of comes out.
I know.
they're sort of like, I want to say flies,
not exactly like,
they're a little heavier
they're bigger.
Get the yellow ones.
The yellow.
Those are the ticket .
Okay .
let them drop to the bottom maybe do a, a kind of a slow reel.
You don't even have to have a good rod or anything. even a regular line
you throw it out
other thing that's real good is small,
it's a real small (( rapalla )) .
It's about an inch and a half long
they're all silver, something real shiny about that long.
They'll go after that in a heartbeat also. Just anything that really shines or spins.
my mom, she just loves to fish
she has a lot of little,
they almost look neon.
they're just real
things her end.
That's it.
really a good fisher woman.
That's neat.
you sound like you're a good fisher woman, too.
Hi, Clarice.
have you had a family reunion recently?
just this last summer we went back to Utah,
we met, it was my,
we usually go to my family reunion,
this one was my husband's
they're usually quite similar, I think.
Are you both from Utah originally?
he's from here
most of his people are from Oregon,
we kind of met halfway
this was one,
they, planned it up in the mountains and got a cabin
how nice.
and had,
things like that have to be planned,
they had planned
we went to the reunion in end of June and first of July
that part
the fourth of July weekend,
we had to plan everything clear in December, January
to reserve that.
was this his entire family, cousins, aunts, uncles
like that or his immediate family?
this was everybody.
how many people were there?
jeez, I think over, three hundred
were there.
It was quite a large
it was a great big lodge,
we had plenty of room and everything,
some of them live in that area,
it wasn't too hard for them to come in the day and leave.
that was a great big thing,
we do that with his family about every five years,
a great big one.
immediate family to do one thing once a year.
people are in his immediate family?
he has eight brothers and sisters
that's big by itself.
it really is,
you get together once a year.
we have a little shindig with them.
Are they all here in the area,
are they
they're proximity.
let's see,
there are four of them who live here in Texas, and his mom and dad.
the others live in close neighboring, states, like Nevada, Arizona
I think like that,
that's wonderful.
it's been fun.
How about you?
we don't really get together,
would love to,
that's why I checked that I wanted to do that, because I would love to plan a family reunion sometime.
I have a sister in Colorado, and, a sister in upstate New York, and a sister in Connecticut, and here I am in Texas.
we're kind of scattered right now.
cousins they put on a family reunion, once a year,
it's always like the second week in September,
the kids are already back in school
that's back in the
That's hard.
that's in New York,
there's no way, there's
just no possible way.
it's not really a weekend,
it's just like a day kind of thing, because most of them are,
my family moved to Connecticut,
the rest of the family stayed in New York
and, on Long Island,
they're all kind of local and close,
they just have day picnic,
I've always thought it would be so neat, even if it were just my immediate family, to have like a weekend type thing
that would be so wonderful .
It really is fun,
my mom's family does it once a year, just like you said
once a year, they have a Wednesday through Saturday type thing.
You can come and go as you please type thing.
they do that once a year.
I kind of missed it this year, and felt bad,
you can't go every year,
you just
cannot do that.
do have a hotel,
where do you stay?
basically, they just stay with each other, brothers or sisters.
There are enough in the area just kind of span yourself out.
Take everybody,
Whoever's mom and dad it is, you usually go and stay with them,
I go stay with my mother,
my cousins, they just go stay with their mom and dad,
kind of thing.
it's not hard that respect because they all are pretty centralized in one Utah area
that's not hard,
that sounds so wonderful,
isn't that nice.
the real planning, that's the real key
they send out,
my mom's family now,
this is the first reunion with my husband's family I've really been involved with,
my mom's family, each brother and sister takes a turn one year,
that's how they divide it up
then one brother and sister from each family.
she has ten in that family
each one of them take their turn.
parent who's turn it is,
her children help her,
if it was my mother's turn
I see, huh.
all of us children would help her
put it on
kind of thing.
the thing is, that, real part is there are two mailings that go out,
the first one is to just kind of give an approximate date and time so you can start making,
What do you think of the public school system?
First off, do you have children that are in it?
I have children that are in the Plano Public School systems
I am a substitute teacher at this point looking for a full time job in the public school,
okay .
system .
then, you should be a good one to know because my children are grown now.
I now have grandchildren,
in the school system
I don't have firsthand experience right now,
with it.
what do you think?
I think the public school systems are doing a good job.
I think they have a long way to go yet
I think that, they are starting to head towards more technology and getting the kids computer literate earlier.
You know, my kindergartners computers,
I think that with the way the world is today that's got to be done.
I think that, the schools now are starting to teach thinking strategies more than just giving them, skills.
you don't just add one plus one
you figure out why you're adding it and what you're going to do with it once you've got it together.
I think that that's something that is drastically needed because most of these kids cannot think,
they literally cannot come in out of the rain.
That's right .
that just,
I don't care how intelligent you are if you be cannot make it function for you that intelligence is being wasted.
this has been one of my pet peeves and probably why I went into education.
I think, trying to head them into teaching them to think and use the education that they have,
I think that's very, very important.
it is.
agree with you that they're starting children so much earlier on things because our grandchildren,
we have a, fourth grader
we have one that's in kindergarten
I know the fourth grader is doing stuff that our children were doing in the fifth and sixth grade.
it's amazing,
to me and stuff that I didn't do until I was in junior high.
which, of course, shows my age.
I tutor a girl that's in eighth grade
her pre algebra book is higher then some of my Algebra Two,
when I was in high school.
Is that scary?
it's like, I going to take this home and study it before I can help you.
moving them along
yet, at the same time, they are stopping and making them use it and function with it like they would need to do in everyday life.
that's wha ,
a lot of the things that we did in school I've never used and never will use.
I think that appropriate to teach them, why they are learning this not just because the teacher says you have to learn this.
Are you finding that, since you're doing substitute, that you're wanting to do full time?
I have a friend that's a teacher that one of her complaints is she can't teach because she's so busy filling out all the forms.
that's a,
d ,
find that?
filling out the forms and also all of these, statewide and national wide testing,
things so that they compare
(( )) . make a survey or test scores say anything you want it to say.
it's just a matter of how you're going to interpret it.
you waste so much time quote, unquote teaching to the test to make sure that your scores are the very best they're possibly going to be,
that crazy personally
nine weeks of school used as a review
more than a review they're getting those kids primed and ready for the tests that are coming up in,
Coming up,
October. So that you know, your school district shines throughout the United States.
I think that's totally useless.
I think, there's a place and a time for all of the tests and comparisons
I think they've taken it to the extent now that it's just ridiculous.
It's like bragging on your grandchildren.
Right .
everybody's kids are the best kids that have ever hit this earth
nobody else's children are going to ever live up to this,
that's great.
that's what they're doing with the school systems
they're wasting too much time on that, I think.
know that friend,
is in the Plano School District,
she teaches, emotionally disturbed children.
she says she has, six graders in there that are reading on the level of the second grade.
she says she's getting very frustrated and very depressed because the school is pressuring her to pass them on even though they're not ready.
because evidently you receive a certain amount of money when they're passed on or something.
I didn't quite understand it.
there's a,
The bottom line is always money,
I'm supposed to ask you, how do you make use of your credit cards
I'm supposed to compare those with habits.
How do I make use of credit cards?
let's see.
I carry a lot of credit cards with me mostly because I don't ever have cash.
do you work for Texas Instruments?
I do not.
at T I we have to use what's called a (( tex teller ))
if we want to get cash out
those are only available at T I.
if I'm in a mall or something I can't get cash out without paying extra money
I'm always using credit cards.
myself I always, tr ,
a traveling person
I'm out of town quite a bit
I use credit cards quite a lot also as far as everything from service work gasoline in my car to my lounging, entertainment and for everything.
me too.
as far as using them outside that don't use them too much
(( )) think my wife is sort of like you
she uses a credit card,
most of the time.
she does most of the shopping for our household
she'll use them more than I will.
do you get to pay the bills?
Same at my house .
it's me the guy that always goes to like Dillard's
I'll go in and charge something
I'll have to give them my driver's license.
They'll have to look up the number because I'm never carrying a credit card.
I do carry my American Express and my Visa which I use for, primarily work type things.
This is my first call by the way,
it's mine too.
is it really?
All right
we're both beginners then.
I've had this for a couple weeks
I've been out of town
this is my first time to,
to use it.
did you pick this topic
were you given?
I was given this topic.
I see.
a topic,
you call the eight hundred number,
Have you tried it yet?
No .
When you call the eight hundred number, they assign you a topic and, pretty, cut and dried .
let's see.
how long are we supposed to talk for?
I'm not sure.
A couple,
about two I think.
I really don't have too much more to say in regards to credit cards.
one thing I've always tried to do is when I get my credit cards, I always try to pay them off because I just sort of detest paying interest.
years ago my wife and I got married
she was the one with a little bit (( )) than I was because I had my credit cards, I think, up to the limit
I was giving everyone ten dollars a month and everything like that.
That will cost you a fortune.
That was like thirty years ago
now it's a little different.
I get a bill
I'll pay it the same day it comes
at least I try to,
I just kind of tell my kids how much I hate paying interest
they should follow the same rule.
That's right.
if you pay it that way it, like getting a free loan for a while.
you bet it's ju ,
Which is what I do.
it's an absolute savings.
if you travel for work and you get your reimbursement before the bill comes in,
You bet.
you get to keep the money.
very handy.
It works great.
I think that's all I have.
it was nice to meet you.
Nice to meet you
give it a try.
I think you'll enjoy it.
Thank you.
Bye bye.
the light of what has been happening lately with the doctors that I know and lawyers and whatnot, I think national health insurance is a way to throw a lot of money at a very small problem.
Do you?
if you took half the money that they would spend in the state of Texas for health insurance and gave it to qualified students so they could become doctors, the problem would go away.
You think the problem is not enough doctors?
I think the problem is that the have conspired to limit the number of doctors, and that the lawyers have conspired to make sure that if you are a doctor, you are going to pay high premiums on your liability.
I really have a different point of view on this .
because I'm a nurse
for one thing.
you think there are plenty of doctors?
I don't think there is a shortage of doctors
I do know that O B, which is my field
is over two hundred thousand dollars a year
It's astronomical.
that deliver babies.
they can't doing anything about that.
I don't think they're in a conspiracy.
I think it's our fault, because we as people just sue them.
people don't sue
People are very conscious.
lawyers sue.
If you put a ten thousand dollar cap on the amount of money that a lawyer could make from a law suit against a doctor
they wouldn't sue a one of them.
that's probably true, too.
people are very conscious of how much money they can get real fast these days.
when you think about reasonableness, I believe that a law suit should have some foundation in the tort theory.
You know what tort theory is?
a tort is when you do something wrong.
an O B G Y N doctor cannot control the fetus in the womb a hundred percent.
That's right.
If the baby is born dead, that happens.
they have complications and,
It depends.
I know, there are guys that are real slobs,
there are also people out there that are really doing their job.
the people that are really doing their job are paying for everybody else.
that's true,
they are
because doctors are performing many more tests.
Many of them are unnecessary,
they are doing so many C sections
Just to prevent a
just to
a law suit.
they have all these monitors now
if anything looks even a little bit funny
their only safety precaution is to go in and get that baby,
C and
so it's costing more all around in health insurance
for tests, for surgery, for longer hospital stay.
I believe
it's terrible.
that is a system already in place for health care.
they have indigent health care.
You show up at Parkland bleeding
You'll get it.
they'll fix you.
That's true.
In fact, you'll get it at Presbyterian if you show up there, too.
we have that happen.
We have patients that go through Parkland
through the clinic
at the last minute, they come to us.
we can't turn them away.
I think that if you just wrote the lawyers out of the equation
the problem would pretty much evaporate.
I'm for that.
I've been through a two year divorce where the only one that came out ahead was my lawyer,
I'd like to wipe them all out .
happen to know a few
I even claim one as a friend.
He's a divorce attorney.
He better not be mine .
I think he'll go nameless purposes of this conversation.
I also know an, O B G Y N who has stopped practicing.
some they do.
he just said,
They stop their O B at least.
he's not going to deliver any more babies
His malpractice was five hundred thousand dollars a year.
That's incredible.
he said, to gross two million to take home as much as his malpractice.
most of them are very sincere.
Most of them do the
best they can.
They are human.
This guy is Catholic.
something will go wrong.
you can be human and Catholic.
I know you can be human and Catholic,
you're not likely to find somebody who is going to, have a less conscientious effort.
most of them do.
I really believe that.
From dealing with doctors, dealing with lawyers, there is no doubt in my mind who is more conscientious.
who is getting rich?
Insurance companies.
they are.
if you were able to write a malpractice insurance that would negate any financial obligation on the part of the doctor over and above the insurance,
you have malpractice insurance and a kid dies or is malformed
Of a exercise program you have.
I have a former exercise program.
I'm a graduate student,
this semester, I'll tell you what, it's been almost impossible for me to get, back to regular exercise.
last summer I was swim instructor all summer life guard,
it was really easy for me to get quite a bit of exercise swimming
since I worked at a recreation center I could, use those facilities quite often.
swimming is, one of the best exercises you can do.
as far as for, cardiovascular
there's no jarring on the.
least hard on your body,
It's the least hard on your body
Exactly, yeah,
flu ,
as far as, impact
fluid resistance.
How about you?
I do, little aerobics, three or four times a week,
it's not enough to,
boy if I go, in the summer time I try to a couple of miles
even doing that three or four times a week, when summer hits, that's a hard thing to go out and
and go jogging for,
half hour or so,
I'm not quite getting the level that I need to.
kind of think it's a chore,
do you enjoy it?
I like it.
I like it,
part of my problem is I have small children,
to do a whole lot just requires a lot of, coordination as far as
scheduling and
that type of, deal,
when you're in college, boy.
You got a hundred things going on.
Of course, you got a little different direction going,
I used to weigh, two hundred fifteen pounds,
now I weigh only seventy five.
I drastically had to change the way I ate first moved to college,
I had started weight lifting quite regularly,
I got my weight down,
it's kind of easy for me to forget about it now, because, when I'm not fat like I used to be
you don't notice it
I don't worry about it
, yeah.
as much,
Although lately I have noticed, even if I gain, like two pounds, feeling it
You feel it, don't you?
It's amazing much, it changes,
I weigh probably about the same I weighed for, I don't know how many years,
it's changed places .
things don't fit just quite exactly
fit the same.
do you do,
in Texas, does
there, probably quite a few facilities.
there are.
I'm living in a dorm right now,
right downstairs there's a facility.
I really feel kind of guilty for not working out more than I do because there's a facility right downstairs where we have to do run down there
Do you enjoy it,
is it,
I really do if I have the time to.
If you can the time
it's just the.
I really do, because I like to off alone and just do that for a while,
that's hard,
it is hard
it is hard.
It's, like anything else whether or not you want to
sacrifice another half hour.
My problem is I don't want to wake up another half hour earlier
and do more .
Don't get enough sleep as it is,
kind of have,
if you're having the pressures of school and, everything else, it's kind of,
course it's really,
as soon as you do it, it's really a release.
You feel invigorated
you feel
you feel in a lot better shape
ready to go another twelve hours.
just like eating right foods.
If I eat very much sugar, boy, just does something.
Do you have to watch what you eat pretty regularly?
I do.
I have to be real careful.
I stopped eating meat about, must have been eight months ago.
Did you?
any kind of meat
really feel a lot better now.
Makes a lot of difference.
it really does.
there's a lot of fat in meat.
about where almost all of the fat comes from
I found that really helps.
unless you really like, fish.
(( )) .
Fish is pretty good for you,
I eat that,
I think I've eaten fish like twice since.
I used to eat a lot of fish, too,
I just tried to cut it all out for a while and see what happens.
Kind of see what happens.
I like it.
I've tried to do that with sugar
it's almost impossible
I don't know if I'm that brave yet .
everything has sugar in it .
if you go,
your ketchup has sugar in it.
I like sugar, too,
that's a problem,
it's, nice talking to you.
Think we've, covered all the subject.
it sounds good.
good luck to you there in Idaho.
you, too.
Good luck,
enjoy college while you can.
Let me tell you it's,
I'm in graduate school now.
I kind of feel like I wish I could have gone back to undergraduate now .
It's a little different,
challenge, isn't it?
it is.
it's good talking,
Where are you going
I'm studying speech pathology.
do you see as, the changes that have occurred in the last (( )) ,
I think one of the thing that I notice a lot,
I know it's touching social changes,
to me what becomes socially acceptable,
don't know if it's a factor of me growing older and seeing things through different eyes or if it's a factor of our society actually moving in that direction,
I notice things on T V being I believe,
they portray things on T V obviously that they never would have years ago,
specifically, nudity, things like that,
I don't know,
said several times to my husband that I feel like gee, in ten years they'll have just full nudity on T V
nobody will think anything of it,
to me that's surprising.
To me, a big change to accept it,
it comes across, I think subtly, a little at a time, to where you get so used to seeing a little change, that, when they go one step further, you don't notice it that much.
That's one of the biggest ones I've seen.
that's a big one.
What about you?
I think that society has come to a point where they're not responsible for any of their actions.
Somebody else, made them do it.
that's what I seem to see a lot of, that, no one is willing to take responsibility for their life and their choices.
It's rather, sue these guys because they made seat belt that didn't work right
that's what I think is a big one.
I tend to agree with you,
I think there's a lot of that.
we have become lawsuit happy.
Any little thing, it's like let's see what I can get.
Don't you think that maybe a lot of that came from, the era we went through that was like, hey if it makes you happy, do it.
kind of like, disregard to others,
do what makes you happy,
we should take care of ourselves,
we should see to our own lives, but not to a total disregard of others.
I don't know,
I think it's come to that a lot.
I see it a lot in my daughter.
I have a four year old.
hers isn't a social thing as much as it's a stage they go through,
whenever something happens it's, you made me hit that,
you made me do this,
I try to tell her, (( )) , everything isn't always somebody else's fault.
you have to watch where you're going ,
it's what you just said, kind of hits home to me, just through her.
another thing I think has changed quite a bit is, the roles that men and women play.
That's really in the last thirty years has changed significantly.
I think you're right.
in your opinion, good or bad, or both?
there's some great things that, have come about with more equality,
I think that also,
I don't know what's causing society to have so many broken families and things like that, because I think that's bad for us.
I do too.
I think part of that,
I don't know,
I think the role of women changing has been good in that women are feeling in terms of their self their self worth, I can do something,
I can be somebody,
if I put my mind to it, I can accomplish things too.
I think that's good,
that was first trying come about with, what we know as the women's lib movement
I think it was too extreme.
I think you can be feminine and still be all those other things too,
I think there's definite roles,
I think, part of the break up of the family, maybe it's because of the social changes,
I don't know,
the fact that, during their early changes where, women did out, come more out of themselves,
speak out,
I think a lot of men were threatened by that.
I think now less men are, because they're used to it,
it's around them.
don't know,
I don't know why the families are breaking up.
I think that may go back to what you said a minute ago about people not being responsible for themselves or their actions, because it's like they don't go into the marriage with a commitment that this is going to work.
They go in and say, hey, I'll stick with it while it's good,
I'll get out.
I think that directly affects the effort that you put into that marriage or that commitment.
I would agree with you.
What kind of movies have you been seeing lately?
it's been probably a month or so since I've been to the movies.
Course, favorite now DANCES WITH WOLVES.
it's an excellent movie.
SILENCE OF THE was good.
SILENCE OF THE LAMBS?
What was that anyway?
(( )) .
mystery, you'd call it.
It's with, Jodie Foster.
pretty good.
Another one that I think I really liked was, THE FISHER KING.
Let's see,
who was in FISHER KING?
That was, Robin Williams
I can't (( )) the last name.
How about you?
What are you?
we've not been having many opportunities to see movies lately.
we really enjoyed, DEAD POETS' SOCIETY.
several years back one we really, really enjoyed was, ORDINARY PEOPLE, with, Timothy Hutton and, Mary Tyler Moore,
who played the father, anyway
excellent movie.
an excellent movie.
Have you seen DANCES WITH WOLVES?
we have.
What'd you think of it?
we loved it.
I don't think I can see it enough times.
I know what you mean.
I know what you mean.
Course I'm a Kevin Costner fan.
I'm pretty impressed with stuff he's done.
he made kind of an odd sounding ROBIN HOOD,
basic thick western U S accent for a ROBIN HOOD just doesn't seem to fit.
it wasn't a bad movie.
It's a good movie.
It got such bad reviews,
I thoroughly enjoyed it.
wasn't expecting any classic either.
they did a real good job with it.
I thought so.
they didn't try to make him super human or, invincible.
he worked hard at it.
(( )) .
Have you seen THE FISHER KING?
I haven't, an opportunity to see that,
I guess really isn't for everybody.
It's, it's pretty deep and, philosophical.
I thought it had a wonderful message to it. It's the kind you came out and looked at somebody and said, I think I liked that .
the more you got to thinking about it, the more you thought, I did like it .
when you first came out, you weren't real sure.
It sounds kind of like one, we saw at home here rented it, CLARA'S HEART.
Haven't seen that.
Whoopi Goldberg.
I did,
I did.
she played a,
she's a housekeeper.
the nanny type.
she's a housekeeper
Housekeeper, huh.
She was Haitian.
Anyway, seemed to be that sort of person that seems half crazy,
then again, she's got a whole lot on the ball,
the movie had the whole, lot of philosophical content,
it wasn't a mystery,
it wasn't, blood and guts and violence car chases type thing.
It was just a good movie.
I saw one the other day that was A KISS BEFORE DYING.
A KISS BEFORE DYING.
I had not heard about it when it was on the movies, but was out on video.
it's with Sean Young.
It was very predictable,
when the murder was going to happen or something,
it was still so well done
that it was enjoyable.
takes a good bit to make one that's predictable that's still worth watching.
That's right.
I had,
I like the, I think it's called the, RAZOR'S EDGE,
(( )) .
the JAGGED EDGE,
the JAGGED EDGE
okay .
All right.
serious problems in the public education and what can be done about it.
what do you think?
just, quit my job to stay home with my kids.
I was a teacher for seven years in the public schools,
I know a little bit about it not,
a whole great deal.
tell me about it.
What are,
what are the problems with public education?
There's several .
It's such broad, topic that need to boil it down.
one that, that I'm not sure it's being taken care of right now, was bilingual education
for, different,
minority groups and like Asians and, Mexican Americans just people in general that speak other languages that sometimes come from other countries or coming from different areas , and in this area,
as the school district, I'm not sure how to go about it, because it's hard to get one teacher that speaks all these languages
most of these children are put in, special ed a bilingual program, and then for just a small amount of time,
they're into their regular classrooms the remaining day,
the teachers are not sure how to teach them math when they don't read or speak English.
a lot of the money isn't put into that,
these children are just kind of sat in the corner
there's only so long you can do that
to me that seemed like a big problem in the school districts.
a lot of the teachers,
was not the teacher's fault.
A lot of the teachers were just not getting the backbone or support that they needed or the materials or the extra help that they needed for these specific children (( )) .
Do you find that those parents,
I've seen the same thing and heard the same things,
at the same time I've heard that it's even harder when both parents are required to work and can't spend, time,
typically the mother was at home with, the children and,
and at least could kind of keep up on what's going on,
really society sort of dictates that, both the parents work.
I know I've heard some people talk about just the fact that even as far back as the, the second and third grade, if the kids had, proper reading skills or learned proper reading skills would make a lot of difference.
teaches language too.
Which is really good.
I work at a university,
it's really tough when we're,
work at the University of Texas at Dallas
we have, some pretty selective admissions requirements for incoming freshmen.
there are some students who are in the top ten their class,
their S A T scores are very low,
a lot of it has to do with reading ability,
It, makes it tough because (( )) you know when they come in with scores that low, they may be, good students,
they just haven't achieved to their fullest potential
they're going,
to fail unless some sort of remedial, education is given to them
comes into, who's supposed to give it to them, the colleges and universities or,
are they supposed to get that back in the high schools and,
the junior highs.
I know Richardson school district wonderful program in the remedial reading, where,
of course, all the children are tested in some,
time (( )) portion of the year
some children who need extra help are put into this, reading program,
it is just excellent.
It is,
I wish that all the children could be exposed to that program,
that there are some parents that say how do I get my kids in that,
yet they don't qualify,
it's unfortunate that they don't qualify, because I think everybody would benefit from these programs.
it sounds like it.
It is excellent
how many children do you have at home?
I have two little ones
that's why quit my job.
I've been teaching since they were, gosh, newborns
it just wasn't adding up
being a teacher, you see all these parents who are working and working and working and just, don't have the time, time.
It was kind of getting to me, I'm doing the same thing .
my children are getting older
I was missing out on a lot,
I just decided to stay home for a while,
I don't know how long .
that's good.
Okay, I guess, we are just supposed to talk about things we do in our spare time.
I basically read books.
It is,
I do.
Sometimes, when everybody's gone to bed, my kids are in bed and my husband in bed,
I will just stay up and finish a book that I am,
I have about three books that I am going on.
I will work on one for a little bit, and then the next one.
that's just kind of,
that is pretty impressive to have three books going.
Not always,
just sometimes.
what what kind of books do you read?
just really different ones.
I have one that I was reading on, raising your children and then another one on autobiography, and another one on, like a crime story .
A true crime story.
do you like those detective stories?
it was a true one.
It was just a little different though.
Reading that one last night.
that is interesting.
I like to read also,
usually fall into one or two categories, true science fiction fantasy on the one hand highly technical.
like my husband.
kind of one or the other.
You must, work for T I?
I do.
my husband does too.
I am a computer scientist.
I have a lot of other hobbies.
I am kind of, I guess what you would call a project person.
I love,
I have a shop
when things break around the house, I always try to fix them myself
from the one stand point, it is work.
it is a hobby too, that I enjoy
to do.
To find broken,
What kinds of things do you fix?
essentially anything you find in a house. a stove, or oven or a broken piece of porcelain or, chipped tile on the floor. just anything.
you have a shop?
is not anything elaborate.
It is just a work bench and a gazillion tools.
enough that, again for anything in the house I could probably,
you can fix just about everything and anything.
that is great.
in the car,
I guess the car too.
I think I probably would consider that a hobby.
Although, sometimes it gets to be excessive.
That is pretty much like my husband.
pretty, mobile in that area too.
works on the cars.
He rarely takes them in
he works on irons, and all T V s and stuff too.
We rarely have to take those things in too.
I think
not only can it be fun,
it can certainly help your finances.
do you have any creative or artistic hobbies?
Not really.
during Christmas I work on, like, holiday sweat shirts and those kinds of things.
not really .
I don't necessarily either.
I can plink out a song or two on a piano
I can,
I don't necessarily draw or do any of that kind of art,
I guess
graphic arts
is that what they call it,
I can't do any of that,
sweat shirts is certainly impressive.
I belong to this organization you have preschool children
every once and a while they will have a craft, section for the moms
those are really neat
we learn to do the, transfer pictures on the sweatshirts
transfer photos
those are really neat.
we learn different crafts like that
I see.
that is neat .
I guess you could consider that a hobby.
cook for a hobby
do you,
I cook dinner .
That's not something you,
I don't consider it a hobby .
I understand that.
I am not a real elaborate cook or anything like that unfortunately.
I like to bake off and on.
usually once a week I will bake something,
it's not anything elaborate, .
At least, I don't think it is.
I think that still borders on hobby.
Probably the other thing I do which I am sure will sound horrible to you, is I program for fun. on the computer.
I have going on that I consider hobbies.
drive my wife crazy.
You have a computer at home?
I do,
In fact, there is actually several of them here right now.
Not all of them being mine.
Then you are busy .
that is very good.
I wonder if you can construe raising children as being a hobby?
you know one of the books reading,
I stopped because it was so,
the book is so detailed
you have to,
sometimes I have to go back and read the page over again cause I didn't quite get it all.
it is so detailed,
What do you think about gun control?
sort of mixed feelings about it, I guess,
I lean more towards the control side towards, just army.
on the other hand sort of an issue
a great fan government control in general
kind of a tough issue.
What about yourself?
I guess that I would like say that perhaps someplace in the middle where people could somehow qualify or, have a legitimate use for the weapon I suppose
because also, living in this area, problems in D C come home very quickly.
you would take a position where somebody a, specific use,
in other words, if they just wanted to have gun to have in their home, like them to be able to do that?
Is that,
I'm not so sure about that,
I think somehow, safety courses
I don't know whether this could be something that was done in school,
somehow people,
I'd like to know that the people who had them at least knew what the responsibilities were, whether they followed them or not.
at least there's the moral issue that knew better.
Which is sort of, flaky,
have, I have the impression majority of the problems that we have with guns probably not from the people that buying them through legitimate channels anyway.
that may be wrong.
certainly are cases children who find their parents' gun or something shoot a brother or sister or, things like that that need to be definitely avoided
certainly within the channels,
a lot of crime, I think, that goes on, don't know to what the degree the guns purchased through regular channels or they're illegal guns.
I don't know,
this morning in our paper, there was an article about somebody who had bought three guns in Virginia because all you have to do is get a driver's license,
he went over there and got a driver's license, the same day bought three guns and went up to New York and sold them for, very high markups.
in a sense, that's a legal
way of getting the guns,
certainly the
the purpose is not very legal.
I think, some sta ,
don't know if it's been actually been implemented,
I think so,
at least there's been talk about doing, like waiting periods and
and things like that.
think stuff like that is perfectly good.
basically, don't intend to do anything stra , buying it for legitimate purposes, waiting ten days shouldn't be a problem.
I don't know,
don't own a gun don't really want one,
I'd just as soon a lot fewer people did.
on the other hand, like I say, I against government control in general.
I suppose total ban would lead to more illegal weapons.
something about banning is that, are so many weapons out there they're not going to disappear anytime soon.
they're already,
I know there's a ready market for them,
in the s ,
the guns can be sold.
the first thing a burglar will pick up if he can is a gun.
they, they can be so easily sold
I don't know how many millions of guns have been sold in this country,
it's not like they're going to disappear all of a sudden. even if you do do a total ban on them.
it's a real tough problem.
don't know,
I don't know where I really come down on it.
grew up,
my father was a hunter,
sort of almost a separate issue.
I think we've generally been talking about handguns and that kind of thing,
that's true.
some people grew up with guns in the house.
We never had any in the house
to me, first time I saw a gun up close was a pretty scary thing.
I'm not sure that's good either.
I grew up with them.
I never really took to hunting.
I did some of it,
handguns or anything like that.
We shotguns quail and pheasant hunting and things like that.
it was a whole different thing
gun safety was taken very seriously
it was,
before we go hunting, took safety courses,
seems to me to be just a whole another issue.
I'm not certain that people are terribly concerned about other people.
Do you, have a family budget,
how do you work your budgeting?
for many, many years, my wife and I did have a budget.
we were both working at the time and so forth
we had to do that until we finally got the house paid for other big bills taken care of.
we have budget,
not as strict now as we used to because we don't have quite such a tight financial situation.
it's helpful.
having a budget is very, very important
that did get us so that, the house is paid for and, other major things are taken care of
now we can relax a little bit more because basically we don't really require as much on a daily or a monthly basis as we did before,
we don't have to have quite as strict, a budget as we did.
we don't have a real strict budget.
we have low budget to work on,
for like groceries, we say about this much per week
we just spend about so much.
don't know of a written figure of expenses that we, keep to or anything,
I know that I go to the grocery store that we always stick within, five dollars between here and there.
A certain amount.
I think I do that automatically myself.
I unconsciously, stay certain amount because have enough food already stored here
that I don't have to make any large purchase at any one time.
All I normally do now is pick up little things here and there. If the salt goes out or we need sugar or something like that.
that's great.
we have two freezers,
course, we have a large garden here that we grow a lot of our own stuff
we freeze a lot of that,
a lot of the vegetables are taken care of in our own
you guys sound pretty self sufficient .
keep a little note pad wall.
W ,
if anything is absolutely out, make a note of it
the next time I go to the store, why, I pick it up and fill it up.
worked very well that way.
That way , if each of us finds something is missing, we put it up.
the other person might not know about it.
That way we
that's a good idea.
keep up to date .
Let's see,
the other thing there the topic was talking about was,
all I can think of is if you don't keep tight budget, how do you control expenses,
another thing that we do is we always fly back to California and Washington each Christmas.
not fly back,
somehow we get back there.
this year we did it by train because it was the least expensive
it's more interesting, too, if you've
got the time.
we could go to both places without having to spend so much for
plane fare.
we find that if we're careful with our, just everyday things like grocery shopping gas and entertainment, things like that, then, somewhere the wash, it will come out that we have enough to get back there.
I think we unconsciously do the same thing.
my throat's not as clear today as it should be.
that's all right.
we are, going to be traveling to Europe with a choral.
We sing with a so called Pennsylvania choral
we make a two weeks tour foreign countries
of course, that costs money.
each of us watches the funds that we spend and make sure we gather together over a period a time enough money make this trip.
is another way of, budgeting
that's right.
I think we just sort of unconsciously do it.
We, just live a normal life,
we don't throw any money away, particularly.
We save it for this trip, which is, always very, very nice.
whenever ,
I don't know if this is part of the topic,
whenever I find, a dime or something on the ground, I, I'll probably pick it up .
I do the same thing.
I have a whole pile of them saved that I have found by parking meters .
I have a special little jar that I keep all the money I found in.
count it up at the end of the year, something.
let's face it,
when we're talking budget, it is important have a budget ,
keep track of mine on a more rough basis now by just watching the level of my checking account
I have a money market account also.
I keep those levels up above a certain minimum,
I'm always trying to,
are you in the market for a new car?
I am as a matter of fact.
I'm looking for another car,
probably not.
What sort of requirements to you have for your car?
sports car.
usually black red.
And electric windows, and power locks .
I see .
the line.
not so much that as it is,
I've had so many times when, I'll have a friend next to me or I see guy broken down on the side of the road and try to lean over and roll down the window.
It is just a real pain,
if I'm driving along and there's somebody next to me and, somebody that I know and you try to talk to them
it's real difficult to drive, reach over, and try to roll down the window.
power locks, power windows are things that, just really help a lot .
What about you?
I guess I'm, more traditional in that I don't like windows or power locks,
because the people that I know who have them always seem to have trouble with them.
like anything that I can't figure out why it doesn't work .
I want, good, gas mileage
I want an air bag
I guess,
Have you ever had a car with an air bag?
I haven't.
Have you?
Somehow I just think, I like the idea .
to save lives
like the anti lock brakes.
that's a good idea.
I have never had a chance to,
I have been in cars that have had them,
I've never tromped on the brakes if they didn't lock up.
you think you'd buy, an American car or a European or Japanese?
don't know a lot about different brands.
I tend to have, my requirements like the last time I bought a car guess I did sort of prefer American
my requirements were basically, good repair record, good mileage,
I needed air conditioning
can't remember what my,
I wanted shift. I didn't have a whole lot of choice .
There was one car in all of metropolitan area that I could find that, was sort of a medium priced car with a stick shift in it.
What was that?
turned out to be Chrysler. , Lancer.
stick shift,
Did it have, what, a three speed or a four speed?
a five speed.
was something that a military guy had ordered and hadn't picked up,
it had been on the lot three months
they were really eager to sell it.
I guess in this area, at least, if it's not automatic, it doesn't move.
I much prefer a stick shift
what, curious.
know why I love a stick shift.
you want one?
I just wanted it because, again, I had, I guess traditionally always had a car that had one
I thought it would be more reliable.
It's hard to find stick shift cars anymore.
I found that out.
the people would just sort of look at me like, you must be crazy when I,
went in to, and asked and that was a requirement
most of the sports cars are stick shift.
I'm not even sure all of them are anymore. At least in this area.
Not that I was looking for sports cars,
the people I've talked to don't seem to have stick shift.
why do you like stick shift?
I guess grew up on it it's fun.
an enjoyable part of driving.
I do feel like I have, more control
over the car
to me, it gives me more, a lot more control in snow and ice
and slick conditions.
it does,
I don't know,
really more fun than anything
As long as you're not stuck in heavy traffic, it's fun .
it's probably safer on, long trips because it keeps you more active.
of course, I like gadgets fun things,
on the cars, which are all the things, course, the c ,
Are we tonight?
let me go ahead and press one .
Okay, Leslie,
I'd like to find out a little bit about your hobbies.
What do you like to do in your spare time?
when I have my spare time ,
I do enjoy,
it's a cherished commodity now days,
That's right.
I do enjoy, sewing,
I hand,
I do some needlepoint.
been doing a a picture for my father in law,
if I, ever get enough spare time,
he might see it one day.
some other things I like to do are, music and, also reading.
What kind of music?
I enjoy singing.
I enjoy music too
one thing that I like to do, is sit down and play the piano.
I can't play that well,
I, sit down and enjoy playing musical selections that I am familiar with.
is familiar with.
I enjoy that.
a couple of hobbies that I also have is,
I really enjoy bike riding
the biggest hobbies I have right now are my kids and whatever they are involved in.
Like my, oldest boy is involved in soccer
we go out and play kick the soccer ball around or play throw the football
we also like to, ride bicycles.
we're riding bicycles
a lot of the hobbies that I have right now are centered around children and also things that my wife and I like to do
personally a lot of the hobbies I had when I was growing up and, going to college and so forth are having to change.
I really enjoyed, mountain climbing.
I really enjoyed skiing. and a lot of outdoor activities.
there's not a whole lot of mountains here in Texas
That's right.
that I can go skiing with that right now,
hopefully I will be able to get back to the slopes some day
I have not had the opportunity to go skiing
I grew up in Arizona which has some mountains around it
never did get out and ski .
You didn't?
I never did.
person out there saying hey let me take you skiing
of course, I was at that stage of my life where I had to be taken to
I couldn't go by myself.
that's true.
That's true.
of course, once I got to the age where I could have done it myself, I had other interests I guess.
I guess that for me it was very helpful.
My two oldest brothers were very interested in skiing.
went quite often
in fact my brother still does a lot of skiing.
When I lived around in that area my brother would fly in from Chicago
we would go skiing and enjoy that.
luckily it's kind of unusual because hobbies, nice thing to have
it's good to fall back on those hobbies when you have time to. Like you mentioned
I am finding out, a lot of the spare time that I had isn't there.
That's right.
taken up by activities with, work, with family, with, civic and Church responsibilities for me.
find if make I have to make myself realize that it is important to get out there and just even to go for a walk is good recreation for me .
my youngest daughter is going to be starting up soccer
she's real excited about doing that.
We will be busy with that again.
What, again.
you have participated with that in the past?
Pardon me?
Have you in that in the past?
I did with my older daughter
she was in it for a few years,
she has got so many interests herself that,
we had to start eliminating
the first one to go.
She still likes her piano
she is in band.
she's got lots of hobbies or, activities going on.
It sounds like her life is full too.
I imagine your life is full
Very much.
taking them around all over the place.
That's right .
That's right.
All right.
All right.
Leslie, it's been very nice talking to you.
Is there anything else that you would like to
mention tonight
I think we covered it pretty good.
Thank you for calling.
thank you
you have a nice evening.
You too.
Bye now.
are you a fisher person, are you?
I love to fish.
What kind of fishing do you do?
it's mostly from the rivers and lakes.
In California?
And, yes,
and from the banks.
I don't like to go out on boats.
what kind of fish do they have in your neck of the woods?
down here we usually catch catfish and bass, stripped bass, where I fish.
And trout up at, Lake Shasta when I go up there.
I like it all except, really care that much for the trout.
I think I had rather have a catfish than I would a trout .
don't blame you.
I grew up in Nebraska and, grew up cat fishing in the Little Blue River
we moved to, South Dakota
and, did a lot of Walleye fishing on the Missouri River
now that we are down here, I think a lot of people do some, bass fishing and strip bass fishing
am sort of a catfish man at heart.
like in, Iowa and Nebraska, those little bullheads, they look just like catfish,
they do.
that's what I mean cause I am from Iowa.
we use to catch those little bullheads
they look just like baby catfish.
did you get to go fishing very often?
I like to fish.
The only problem is I just moved to Texas
it's been a little over a year now
am not quite sure what residency is for a fishing license here
I, really I haven't gone fishing for about two years now
it's driving me crazy
one of these days, I will go over to, Lake Lewisville or, and get some fishing in and get it out of my system for a while .
you like to eat them after you catch them?
there's are a lot of people that like to go fishing,
they don't like to eat them.
mo ,
Most of the time, if we catch something, we'll take it home and eat it.
you're right.
I like to fish for trout
they are really, good fighters
if I went to a restaurant that probably wouldn't be the first thing I would order if I had a choice of fish on the menu.
I know.
If I go to a restaurant and order fish, it's usually salmon red snapper.
do you just, skin your catfish
do you fillet them out,
We, skin them.
Do you?
Just cut their heads off and skin them
I just, flour them, salt and pepper them and cook them.
I don't put that corn meal on them.
that's the way my mother taught me to fry them
that's how we do it too.
although we, use to set some, trout lines out
we've caught, fourteen, fifteen pound catfish
sometimes those are good to, do on a barbecue grill
and just leave the skin on and, do it with, butter on tin foil
the skin just basically scrapes right off
wer ,
it really tastes pretty good.
I don't think I've ever tried cooking those, catfish quite that big.
most of them are just the small, pan frying ones.
I am hoping one of these days I'll have the opportunity to catch a big catfish like that on, a rod and reel
so far it's just been the trout lines
Wouldn't that be something?
It's a thrill when you get a big fish though, isn't it?
up in, South Dakota Missouri River there we've, tied into a few northern pike
they really,
when the water is cold, they are very slow moving fish,
in the summer time, they'll, give you a run for your money.
when you were,
when you did go fishing where did you go?
You moved there from where?
it was just like the rivers and, the
lakes I suppose,
In Nebraska?
Most of the time, we just fished, in the river although there were a lot of sand pits and things like that, that we could fish in.
a lot of them ended up being close to the river,
if the river every, flooded, then obviously they would dump some catfish and bass and stuff into the into the ponds and the sand pits
we would do a lot of fishing there too
South Dakota didn't really have much for,
Afternoon, Doug,
it certainly is, going to be a pleasure to chat with you.
I'm, certainly was surprised hear from you.
Normally I talk to people in Plano, Texas.
me too.
How did you get on this list?
through Nancy Dahlgren.
had somehow gotten the information from T I
and was distributing it around.
All right.
what would you say about these everyday invasions of our privacy?
What ideas do you have on that, Doug?
I'm not sure that,
I don't think they're necessarily widespread in this country,
I think that the opportunity is definitely there for, people to invade your privacy when they want to,
I think it's,
In what manner?
it's certainly not that difficult to tap a phone.
It's completely trivial to, for instance, listen in on someone's car phone or walk around phone, since they're just radio signals.
let's see,
what's the first thing that comes to your mind?
the thing that I thought they were, concerned about people calling on the phone from all over the country to sell you something
in reality in many cases, they knew, or they had information about you that was purchased from some other organizations.
I thought was, beginning to invade the privacy of people, because the things about where you live maybe what you purchased in past months is then put down and sent to someone else in the same business,
they in return, come back and try to sell you something with this additional knowledge.
To me that's an invasion of privacy.
I agree with you there, for sure.
I think that all that information is quite easy for anyone to get.
It's possible for almost anyone to get information about your credit history, for instance, if they just, twist the right arm or claim to be from the right organization when they're calling the credit company.
It's, possible for a thirteen year old hacker with a modem to find out almost anything about your personal history, not to mention, change it if he wants to.
You mean your history in regards to,
the charge card company or something like that?
for instance, yes,
they'll probably goes into other things, like, your records with the government or utility companies or anything.
Do you consider these serious, problems?
yet anyways, because I don't think they're widespread enough,
I think they have the potential of becoming serious problems.
what should we do about it,
what could be done about it, do you think
to correct it?
I'm not really sure, because the, society is going more and more electronic,
there are certainly benefits to its doing so,
it's say whether the, risks have potential of outweighing the benefits or not,
I'm not sure what can be done to ensure that they don't.
(( )) Why,
do you see any out for us?
I would think that, information held on records, by any company or charge card dealer or person should be absolutely private not be allowed to be, given out by those companies.
it should be made national or a state law to protect people so that, you would then feel more free to deal direct with these companies.
In other words, if you call the company yourself, directly, and then know that what you tell them will be on their records but will not be available to anyone else, from the outside, so to speak
then feel more free go into detail with them
we have no control of that now
when you're talking with them you really don't want to tell them everything that's on your mind because feel that it someday might be used against you.
I basically, listen to the news from the T V.
That's probably the only time I get a chance to, take a look at it is the evening news
if I'm lucky, I might be able to hear something through news wise.
other than that that's probably how I get my source unless something really tragic happens and somebody tells me it about conversation or whatever
most of the time it is through the news in the evening
that's about the,
You don't get any newspapers?
I'm not too much in reading newspapers.
not that I don't enjoy newspapers or anything like that
part of it is because I just don't feel like I need, to have them, with watching the T V or whatever.
We get our weekly news around the area
I might look through it real quick if there's something that catches my interest, in regards to what's going on around the county or little bit of the state .
the majority of the time now I don't get a daily newspaper where, I get tons of, news coming in that kind of stuff.
I'm kind of the opposite of you.
I get all my news from newspapers.
you do ?
two newspapers.
You read it in the morning then?
Two newspapers in the morning.
I'm, a government position that I'm in the news a lot
kind of look through to what, I'm quoted in.
sure .
bad the quotes are every day.
To see if they did it or if they, criticize you or
put something in there wrong.
sometimes there's, letter to the editor about me
there's a, even, editorials
for against what I'm doing .
exactly .
don't really watch, on it.
kind of like you said then.
are kind of on the opposite where I get home and, while I'm cooking supper the T V is on and watching the news or trying to catch up with what is going on
very seldom do I catch the ten o'clock
by that time, old news is probably what I hear through the grapevine or whatever.
unless there is a big issue going on like when we were at war then I think everybody was glued to the T V to find out what was going on.
other than that, no.
C N N had the, F
everybody was watching C N N,
that seemed to be the place to be
to find out what was going on on that.
At that point, I was watching the T V.
On something like that.
it brought kind of, more of a vivid, look at what was going on when they were dropping the bombs and just a lot of different things.
that's true.
, a lot of people that read the get the news of what's going on
other people that, do it differently or don't even watch any news at all
the thing is, T V,
a lot of times news on, the local T V is so brief, you really don't get the full picture of going on.
Exactly happens.
a problem that I have is not, getting just a little brief, idea of what's happening.
a clip, a sentence or two
that's about it of what went on
they have so much other information to cover in such a short period of time.
Makes sense.
I like the weather report.
I wa ,
I always turn that on (( ))
that's one part I watch because I go surfing down here
I always
want to watch the weather for when the waves are going to be good.
you're right on the coast line.
You're not, further up.
Right on the south Florida coast.
Where the weather is still warm here.
I suppose you watch for coming in and
things like that.
Weather channel's good (( )) .
that's about the only time summer, if you're watching T V for the weather, even though it's very hard to predict what's going on,
they'll kind of say, there's a thunderstorm warning or whatever.
This is what is expected,
a lot of times things happen and change here so drastically, so fast
where movement that was coming in has shifted or whatever
I mostly look for the storms out in the ocean.
hundreds of miles out
I can predict week and
where I'm going to be.
I can be beach when the waves start coming in.
to take off.
sounds pretty good
Anyway, I don't know if our time is getting up here
it's got to be fairly close to that ,
what is your opinion drug testing?
I can see it in certain cases where somebody's in a position that, perhaps a lot of lives are involved, like, maybe, pilots that, fly jets
maybe people that have a lot of responsibility over a large mass of people.
I could certainly see it being done
in general,
whether companies want to do this
I know that companies do.
Like factory workers that have lots of accidents are now being drug tested.
I know a couple of corporations that are doing that.
they kind of have gotten into the idea that let's drug test them and let's put them through rehab.
there's got to be a limitation.
Do we drug test everybody that comes in
do we kind of say, well you can be drug tested
you look okay because you look this way.
very conservative
there's just no way that we would think that you would use drugs
the guy that doesn't fit the stereotype of, the conservative or whatever could be drug tested.
whether legal rights of that person,
I don't know.
There's certainly a lot of things to really consider, when you get into drug testing people just at the work place unless, of course, like I said, they have a large responsibility over a mass of people
that's about it.
it's just not the com ,
you're talking about company's liability.
if the company is liable for something that, that, a employee does while under the influence a drug, then by all means they should have the right to, to
I think that's what companies are doing, more and more because there are products that are out there.
to minimize their liability.
there's also the case about just, and welfare of the, employees.
If a company has a healthy work force, their
insurance rates are low.
there's all sorts associated
with people file fewer claims, being sick.
The only thing is,
(( )) the whole question that a work force that is known not to be on drugs is going to be more healthy
I don't think anybody
would argue with that.
The only thing is,
the one issue that I would take stands with is the fact that the drug testing itself can be done on a person that is actually not on drugs and come out positive.
If they have had medications in the past, let's say, once a month or twice a month or three times a month or maybe that week they take an Advil
the Advil will, apparently, come out positive as if they smoked marijuana.
there's poppy seed type things.
I think that everybody is aware of that
where's the line say to somebody, I'm going to drug test you tomorrow
please do not take these medications
how can
wel ,
the ques ,
how you can do it?
The question becomes what do you do about somebody positive.
D ,
that's where the real sticking point comes in.
It's not,
I don't think there's any problem with testing people.
It's what do you do with the information?
An ,
only thing that I would say on that is it could blacklist an employee later on.
Let's say, you've taken medication of some sort, even though they usually have you, at the time, list what medications you've taken.
let's say you do come out positive
you've taken Advil or any of the Ibuprofen products out there.
you've had a cold
you've been on medication or whatever,
you come out positive.
Is it then the chance that the employer will look at you in more of a negative fashion and say well, this is kind of iffy,
are they really on drugs
they on drugs,
you know what I'm saying.
there might be in the back of the mind of the employer that this person, is on drugs
their mind that let's get rid of this employee,
you know what I'm
I think clearly, the person who is
the employee should not be privy to the information of drug testing.
That should go to an entirely different, agency within a corporation.
it's a,
they can that the,
if it does come out positive the first time, they need to go back and find out what medications did that person take,
you know what I mean?
kind of like,
I think most people are aware, at least now, common knowledge is that ,
I don't know.
Your camping experience is probably,
I don't know if they're similar to mine
since I've had children it has changed a little bit,
when my husband and I were, camping, we'd take this domed tent that, is easily collapsible and, go camping and, just kind of roughed it.
As long as there was a bathroom there and some clean showers and things like that, then it was fine.
we'd get up at three in the morning and start on our little, escapade for the day and, kind of, do a lot of different things and then stop when we wanted to.
that's kind of changed now.
When you have a small child because they don't want to get up at three in the morning
you don't want them up that early.
Would you then go hiking.
would the camping be part of a long hike?
We did a lot of different things.
We'd stop when we wanted to, that kind of stuff.
we kind of did a little bit of hiking, and a little bit of, sightseeing, different areas. sitting back at different areas and spending hours,
we never had really a time limit,
we just kind of did what we wanted
to do for that day.
Very comfortable,
Were you up Wisconsin
would you go into Can ,
where would you camp (( )) ?
there's, places in Wisconsin.
There's the Apostle Islands,
which are in Bayfield which is a wonderful place.
there's also, what we found, in the state of, South Dakota, the Black Hills.
That's beautiful.
we just have this, really good time there.
One thing is they don't have mosquitoes
sorry to say,
in Wisconsin we do,
that kind of puts a little bit of a hamper on your,
you're going to go camping, who wants to deal with bugs
Right .
We found this one area that doesn't have mosquitoes.
They just don't have them
it's just wonderful not to be bugged all night long with a humming mosquito at your ear,
most of my camping,
I haven't done much since I was a kid
we'd, basically, take the tent up in the Sierras and, usually just camp near some stream
or some lake.
it wasn't even a full tent.
It would be more a tarp,
strung up between trees
my dad would take, four kids.
My brother and myself and two cousins
we just thought it was absolute heaven.
there was certainly nothing like bathroom, a shower or anything,
near by .
It was dig your own hole
That was really called roughing it,
I'm not sure I'd do that
that anymore,
some friends of mine and I are planning to camp this summer, for four days.
going fishing,
I have a idea it's going to be lot more equipment and a lot more stuff than
Than you,
Than when you were younger,
with kids they don't care if they take a shower everyday.
With kids they don't care, about a lot of things.
as adults, it's like if I don't take a shower every day, I feel like,
I just don't feel right
There's lots of places if you're going to go camping.
K O A s are wonderful.
the, yuppie type of camping because they have showers,
they have things for kids to do.
They have swimming pools, things like that.
If you
can find, some really nice, clean, campgrounds versus, if you go to state parks,
we have found state parks, not that they're lacking
they're certainly not up to a standard of a K O A where it's, a little bit cleaner.
You've got the showers available.
It's not, in the same category.
State parks, you get a little bit fearful too, things like that simply because it, they are supposed to be patrolled
a little bit different.
we've always kind of stayed with a K O A and then, did other things besides just sit at the campground at night.
That's the only time you really use your campground.
If you're going to be gone all day long, walking someplace or doing tourism or whatever
you're camping really is just for like in the evening to start the fire, to sit back and watch a fire, to enjoy that, and then to get up in the morning and get a shower and get cleaned up, that kind of stuff.
we never really spent that much time at the campground as much as we did,
interesting political trends or events,
I guess the, most interesting one that's, going on right now, from my perspective, is this, phenomena of, Ross Perot.
caught his interview last night with David Frost
it was
first time I had, heard, his views expressed by himself.
I had heard other people talk about what they thought he believed in.
the whole phenomena of him coming out of, literally nowhere and no party. at least, no apparent party support on either side is
pretty interesting.
I have not even heard, believe it or not, of that person.
I'm not kidding.
said it, it was kind of like a surprise.
Like out of nowhere?
I think mainly because I haven't been watching what's politically going on.
as far as
now, the new house bill that went to Minnesota, being that it is their neighboring state and that I lived in Minnesota, I'm more familiar with the politics that involved with that, and that being passed.
as far as politics in the grander, part of it as if you want to look at, election type things, I'm not quite sure even if I'm going to vote.
it gets harder and harder each time an election comes up like that, to make the decision on who would be the best to run.
it seems that the decision, so far, has been filtered
by, party politics so much that
when the candidates finally get party approval, party support and therefore get presented to the public,
candidates are already beyond what, most public, feels is acceptable behavior.
one of the common criticisms of Clinton is, gee, he'll say or do anything in order to get to the White House.
up and to the point of, Perot being a serious candidate, it seems like was a requirement of being contender within the party is to have done all those things.
a guy who for twenty years has been working toward, getting the party nomination preparing himself for the presidency
now it seems like both he and the incumbent President are, pretty seriously threatened by somebody who comes out of a whole nonpolitical arena.
He might be one of those,
kind of when you think back of the old politics where a dirt farmer,
when you think of some of the best presidents we've had, in the past, have been people that have struggled to get to the top.
they were not rich in
in any means
it has been kind of, in the past, I don't know, maybe fifty years that in order for a person to get involved with politics, they've had to have money.
you had to have the views of the people that were going to be paying your way.
it makes the common person,
not to say that a common person couldn't run for government and do a fabulous job because he's got people that are quite intelligent
I don't know if we'll ever see that Where a common person could ever get in there that has good moral standings and, has,
you think of Abraham Lincoln and, just the background of
Abraham Lincoln. teaching himself to read.
He didn't go to college.
He didn't, do all the other things that, you would think that was real popular to do and to get involved in and have money.
He didn't come
from money.
now it's,
yet even he was consummate politician in the sense that, not only did he, fail in business twice with bankruptcy and failure
he lost some eighteen elections before he finally won one.
and only election he won was, the presidency .
had lost every other office that he had,
he was appointed a couple of times to, like, state legislator.
you really know a lot of his background.
when he finally, did win an election, it was the presidency.
It was the big one.
It's the one that everybody wants.
Whether or not I,
you look at all these candidates that want to become president.
I really have to ask them why,
it's the toughest job in the world to do.
not only that, you don't have that much freedom to make choices.
have to go through so many different,
you have to go the House, the Congress, and all of the things
to get a bill passed.
sure you can it at the last minute
then it's not like you have all that power
I think long time ago presidents did have a lot of power.
what is your favorite, food for a dinner party?
I don't know,
think I make things,
I do things kind of simple because just have close friends over.
I make lasagna
we like to have barbecues outside when the weather's nice because in Texas you have a lot of nice weather,
we do a lot of, things like that.
I'm not really into gourmet cooking,
I don't know how to do that,
I don't have gourmet foods .
Do you do Tex Mex?
like fajitas and stuff like that,
how do you make fajitas?
it's kind of made out of (( skirt )) steak
you marinate it.
You can buy marinating mixes here
I don't know,
get it up there.
you can, marinate it in any kind of barbecue sauce you like
quick fry it real fast in grease. not deep frying it
you can barbecue it which is really good,
with, green peppers and red peppers and onions.
then you put it on a flour,
you make your meat real, thin, bite size pieces.
Then you put it on flour tortillas with, guacamole and, sour cream and, all kinds of,
it's like a Tex Mex type thing.
it sounds good.
It's really good.
You can do it with chicken too.
Chicken fajitas and stuff.
that's nice.
what kind of cooking do you do up there?
basically, because I lived in the Middle East for a while I tend to fix Middle Eastern foods when I have,
have people over.
that sounds interesting.
some of the dips are like (( chick )) peas mashed with, sesame.
cold foo ,
what's it called,
I forgot, , what it's called,
You cook them so often you kind of forget their names.
That's right,
that's right.
It's called (( )) ,
now I remember it.
dipping Arabic bread, the thin (( piece )) of bread in that.
another dip is very similar but with, eggplant which has been actually barbe ,
it ends up with a barbecued taste.
although we usually bake it in the oven
if we have,
those of us that have gas stoves bake it on top just like putting it in the gas flame and sort of getting it black,
on the outside but mushy on the inside.
that's unusual I'd never heard of anything like that,
Here in Texas it's all, Tex Mex cooking and barbecue
they're really big on stuff like that
barbecue is it like steaks
is it,
you barbecue s ,
Pardon me?
Would you barbecue a turkey or a chicken
you can barbecue turkey if you have a big enough grill
turkeys inside,
it b ,
you can buy smoked turkeys.
most the stuff that we barbecue is like steak and chicken and hamburgers, hot dogs,
the simple things like that,
like things like that.
barbecue beans and baked beans
I'm sure that the chicken that we barbecue from the Middle East has a lemon garlic sauce.
I wouldn't imagine that a barbecued chicken would.
this is more like type,
depending on the barbe ,
it's like a smokey flavor,
if you've ever, had stuff like that.
it's totally different.
Sounds like it would be interesting to eat some of the Middle Eastern cooking,
it's been fun talking to you.
it's been fun,
it's been nice,
it's, new to learn what different people eat,
You get to think,
I come from Wyoming
it's basically the type of thing except for you do eat more the Tex Mex down here,
in Wyoming it would be less spicy?
down there it's just like meat and potatoes,
Vegetables once in a while.
right .
it's been interesting to talk to you.
very good.
Thank you for calling.
bye bye.
Bye bye.
All right,
we need to discuss the voters.
On a national and a local level.
Why do you think the apathy exists?
I blame it to apathy.
suspect the apathy is due to something like people just feeling their vote doesn't count anyway.
bother voting your vote won't make a difference.
for instance, in, the last presidential election, I'm sure a lot of people thought, Bush is going to win either way,
why bother voting.
Why should I go out of my way when it doesn't matter.
That's right.
I think that's,
the other side of the coin is, people saying, if I really like the underdog candidate, I still think they're not going to win,
are only the same two caucuses, certainly not going to win, why bother voting for him.
that's a big reason for it.
How abou ,
I think so, too.
I think the other thing is the news puts such a blitz on it that they had it predetermined with a half of one percent voting,
that's true.
I never thought about that,
a good rea ,
by time, you get off work and go to vote. You feel like it doesn't make any difference.
That's true,
that's true.
Due to the overabundance of news we have available to us.
What do you think on the local elections though?
I think on the local elections it's actually,
people vote in the larger elections because they feel like, the country's real important,
we help elect a president who's going to save us, the whole country will be saved.
they figure local elections don't mean that much, I suspect.
people don't really worry about their local mayor or something, what good is another mayor going to do anyway because our federal taxes are more important right now, stuff like that.
people think that they don't have, it doesn't matter as much, whereas I think it's probably just the opposite is true.
I think it's probably the case that people could have more effect on a local level.
I think so, too.
I think another thing,
I'm making a judgment here that may or may,
I think it is totally wrong,
I think that the people that have, a lower income, which you automatically equate with lower education
tend not to be registered.
they don't register,
they don't understand that you can't go and vote and register all at the same time,
when it gets down to the point of someone saying are you going to vote today, they say, I would
I believe in this,
I still think that a lot of those people are the ones who really think that their votes don't make a difference, though, as well.
I think it's those same people who don't know any better about how we vote, are a lot of the people who think that look at me, I'm just a little nobody.
My vote's not going to count anyway.
I think that's probably a portion of the population that massively under represent ,
I would guess that that portion of the population is massively under represented.
I had an interesting comment one time, a thought that would never have crossed my mind.
I had someone tell me that, I will never register to vote because I don't want to serve on a jury .
What do they have to do with one another?
I just wandered off from that one.
I was just so surprised and amazed with the statement that they say only registered voters can be picked for jury selection.
they didn't want to wind up being a juror ever.
they wor ,
if they don't vote, they don't have to be on a jury.
I didn't realize that actually.
There is convoluted logic for you.
there is.
There are much easier ways to get out of jury duty.
Just go in and say, I want to be a juror,
I can spot a guilty person a mile away.
I just,
There are so many other ways.
that one, it just defeated me.
I didn't have any answer for that one.
That one was just beyond my imagination.
just seems to be a person who just sort of, likes rights probably, but doesn't like
That's a good point,
you're probably right.
that's what it boils down to, is I don't want to be on jury,
I don't want to serve on jury duty,
I don't want to vote,
I don't want to do this and that.
then they could, put them in the reverse situation, in the place where they don't have the right to be on jury duty
they don't have the right to vote
I suspect their opinions would change very quickly.
that was what I was thinking exactly about because in the Soviet Union they had an election,
they had, like a ninety eight percent turnout.
A massive turnout.
At last, someone wants us to vote.
They were standing in lines to vote.
doing that.
Unfortunately, had no idea what they were voting on it turns out.
their vote didn't count .
That's right.
it's the thought, they all got out .
you wonder, if now the next election they have, if only half of them are going to show up.
how many generations it will take until only half of the voters show up in Russia.
any one shows up.
Total indifference,
what difference does it make.
gone the full circle.
if things go the way that they are there, I think that they'll keep voting,
I think they'll wind up like us at some point, where only half of them will end up voting, and sort of caring enough to really make a statement,
the people who most need to vote sometimes ones are really out to make a statement, because, when you've got an underdog candidate who represents something, and even if he doesn't win, a large number of people voting for that particular candidate does, I think, make a statement
certainly, there's a message there.
to everyone else.
Even if they lose.
I think
I think that's real important.
I think women turn out to vote for women, too.
That's probably true.
I thin ,
I know it's true.
You see a lot of that. rally behind the female.
She may lose,
by golly we're going to make a statement here
That's good,
that's actually really good.
the female who I would most rally behind right now, is a local person for you, is Ann Richards.
I don't know her politics.
I just know that, I saw her speak in the eighty four Democratic convention.
right then and there, if they said to me vote for someone for president, I would have slapped down my vote for Ann Richards.
that the time,
that was eighty four,
that's too soon.
She said something about, Ginger Rogers did everything Fred Astaire did,
she did it backwards in high heels.
That's very good.
She said that,
I didn't.
don't tell me what women can do.
that's, that's very good.
like that.
vote for her,
I suspect she could get a large voter turnout.
I think I did vote for her, as a matter of fact.
I'm pretty sure I did.
I would think that people like that,
I think politicians are,
emotional politicians, certain very vibrant politicians tend to bring crowds out, I think.
I would hope.
some of the issues are so emotional.
some of emotional ones.
Have you followed the Dallas elections on zoning?
I've heard of it,
not necessarily the,
I've heard it's very controversial though.
everyone has made so many statements.
I don't live in Dallas county.
I've heard so many statements that I've lost track.
I honestly at this point,
just too blown out of proportion for everyone.
You really,
even the news. You cannot follow
what actual facts are at this point.
That's what,
really know if some of the poor judges that are trying to decide how it should be divided.
I wonder about them at some point.
they were elected as well,
That's correct.
they're going to be,
another interesting question.
Should judges be elected or appointed.
That's true,
that's true.
Are they politicians,
in some sense they should be politicians in that, you want them to respect the people
a judge to be appointed because you don't want someone's friend to be a judge.
on the other hand,
you want to take the other side of it, you can argue,
that's one of those you can pick either side
we could spend a lot of time on it
That's right.
because difficult.
It's situational, really.
how do you think we can get people to vote?
I've had one idea that I think is completely undoable,
I think,
I suspect it would work.
the way to do it is to get an absolutely atrocious candidate, who you never expect to win, to go out and make inflammatory and ridiculous and stupid statements, so that a large population voters will go out and vote against that person for someone else.
given a choice between,
so that,
if you have,
imagine a world where you have two real candidates and one idiot who goes out and makes, women statements, anti semitic statements, anti black statements, et cetera, et cetera,
then I suspect a lot of people would go out and choose a candidate to vote to spite that person.
I don't think
would actually ever work.
this is true,
this is true.
I was worrying along the lines of you get every time someone puts in a ballot in a ballot box
a dollar bill comes out the bottom.
That's an interesting notion.
That might work in some places.
that, that would be interesting,
I think that would work in some places,
yeah ...
then, do you keep kids?
Is this two year old yours
do you keep children for other people?
I have two children.
I have a two year old and a three and a half year old.
that's exactly what I have.
That's wild.
I know.
little girl was three and a half in March
my son was two in January.
mine was two in March
the three and a half year old will be four July.
That's pretty close.
that is pretty close .
I'm home with the kids all day
I have really, tried to make that a priority even though it's financially a big strain on us.
it is.
Have you been able to do that all along
Pretty much,
pretty much.
I work part time
my husband's able, mostly to take care of them when I'm working.
we adopted these two little guys
how neat.
that was another reason why I really wanted to be here because, they have had a couple foster homes already.
How old were they when you adopted?
The baby was eleven weeks old
his brother was
he probably doesn't remember.
definitely needed.
pretty interesting.
I have always wanted to be able to stay home with my kids
That was always my dream,
I wasn't necessarily a career person
as long as I was single and had to work, I was going to get a good job and do the best I could.
my husband was in the type of business that,
it's insurance
you have to build a clientele
by the time we had kids I couldn't quit.
I haven't been able to quit yet.
I've had to deal a lot with child care
course, we're hoping within, hopefully, the next two years I'll be able to quit and stay home.
I started out,
my best friend kept my kids from the time my daughter was born
that's neat.
until she went to work last year in August
it worked out pretty good.
we had always said from the beginning that if it gets in the way of the friendship then I'll take them somewhere else.
the friendship is more important.
it was a wonderful experience for my kids because she really loved them,
She loved them like they were hers
I knew,
I had good peace of mind.
I knew that they were taken care of
That's the hardest thing I think,
deal with is that people love your,
I put, my oldest in a preschool program just for him to have the experience of
two mornings a week of being with other kids and starting to learn some taking turns and,
that kind of thing
he was in there for three months when I pulled him out
teacher had eleven kids.
It was excellent, supposedly.
The reputation was fantastic for this place.
Was supposed to be an excellent school
I had several friends who recommended it, too.
it really gets down to the particular teacher.
she was a new teacher at the school
she had eleven, three year olds in a room
I just think it was way too much.
The were almost all boys.
she had no help?
She had no help?
She was alone with them.
I didn't think much.
I don't think much.
that is hard.
she was just my,
three year old is real active.
she just kept saying how wild he was.
there was kind of a connotation there of a problem.
he ran back from the bathroom singing and skipping she said.
at three years old
I don't find that to be a behavioral problem .
I don't either .
it's kind of like so much going on that she felt like she needed to control more
it's really hard to con ,
you can't control eleven three year olds with one person,
You have to let them have some wild time
if that's considered wild .
I just finally took him out. Plus financial reasons.
It was expensive.
I was real careful and visited and everything ahead of time.
I still felt like even after all the checking I did, you really can't know everything
(( )) .
about what's going to happen.
I felt safe that the kids weren't going to be left alone somewhere in a room where a teacher could do something inappropriate with them, because
there was enough classrooms close together that it was like a house with different classrooms.
felt like that was a big factor for me.
That they would would be safe
from any kind of abuse or that
kind of thing.
my friend decided to go back to work, and whenever we had problems, it worked out okay because she would come and tell me
we'd work it out.
After that, I found another girl that had gone to church with us that, they needed it financially.
She had a little boy that was the same age as my little boy
I though,
we'll try her.
she came to our house
that just did not work.
she loved the kids
she was good with them.
they were filthy when I'd get home.
I understand kids go out and play
they get dirty
I'm talking sand in the ears and the eyes and the hair
I was, like, gosh.
my own furniture and stuff was like,
the kitchen table, I'd find peanut butter and jelly all over the table and the chairs
You had to come home and clean before you could
and clean,
I was like,
even do anything probably.
in the end, she basically ended up stealing a hundred dollars from me
had a pretty bad taste in my mouth.
She told me about five thirty one afternoon, it was a Friday, that she wasn't keeping kids anymore as of Monday morning.
I work eight to five thirty
what am I supposed to do .
had been sick
it ended up that I didn't go to work Monday because I was sick.
I stayed home with them
we went to some of the Kindercares.
took the kids there once just to try it.
They had a free day at Kindercare.
that's what they said.
There were two pretty near our house
they said, bring them in this week for a free day
I lined up someone Tuesday.
They had a Mother's Day Out that my baby sitter took them to, which was fine.
They liked it.
They had been going to it for years.
I stayed with them Monday.
Tuesday they went to that.
Wednesday I took them to one Kindercare.
Thursday I took them to another Kindercare
Friday my husband and I split.
on Thursday I didn't like the Kindercares.
I didn't either.
I had
one bad, I had two bad experiences just that one day with medicine that my son was supposed to have for a cold that they never gave him.
They didn't give him.
the other one was that younger one got bit
really badly by another child
what they did was they took my younger one out and put him in a crib and left him in a crib the rest of the day.
that's horrible.
Instead of taking the kid that was biting out and do something with him.
doing something with him.
not only was it going to cost me like a hundred and fifty dollars more a month, which I didn't have
a Christian family
like public, they're not private
They can't pray,
they can't talk about God.
They can't do anything like that
I don't want them indoctrinated
you feel like your values aren't getting,
I'd like them to be able to say, gee, God made the flowers, and
things like that.
God loves you.
basic things like that.
I talked to another lady at church.
It was like Thursday of that week
she said I found the most wonderful place that I've been taking my daughter
I've know this girl,
I went to college with her
I, I value her opinion.
she told me about a private one.
was associated with one of the churches here.
It's not the church I go to
it was Lubbock View Christian Church
it's a private academy.
I went over there
I talked to the lady.
they have like a three year waiting list.
she said, I had a mother tell me that she may take a job in San Antonio
she has a three year old and a toddler, which mine was at the time.
she said I should know something by tomorrow, which was Friday,
she said if she leaves, she said, I'll let you have her spot.
Friday afternoon at five thirty, she called me
she said she's going.
You can bring your kids Monday .
what luck.
I know.
I was just like, God set this,
up for me.
Really .
He knew I needed this
since October then, they have been going there
i ,
I love it.
I have been at
that's great.
such peace with myself.
It's just been better than even when they were with my best friend because we don't have the little day to day hassles
the cost was not near as much as the Kindercares were going to be.
Did you hear my printer in the background.
I'm sorry.
I hope you can understand what I s , .
That's okay .
I got the dryer going
in the background
I was only about twenty dollars more a month than I was paying because being a private institution they're nonprofit.
they don't have to charge as much.
that's great.
the hours are wonderful
think it's the best thing.
I told Russ that we should have done this a long time ago
It's great.
I guess as long as I have to work, I feel good that they're there.
they're getting the love, the care.
They have a little curriculum.
They teach them, the alphabet, the numbers, the things which, if they learn, they learn.
If they don't, they don't.
I don't feel like I have to indoctrinate them by age three
it's kind of neat when they
come home with it,
They think it's fun.
It's not a big,
trauma to them to learn something.
the teachers.
Taylor got bit several times
Taylor bit several times
the teachers dealt with that.
We're like, hey they're two
we keep them apart
we scold them
we correct them
they mark it all down
they let you know
they get over it real quick
he doesn't do it anymore
they work at the potty train ,
I don't know.
I just feel like a big burden was lifted .
Because sometimes it is a burden having them all day because I can't
It is.
do anything with them here.
I can't even go grocery shopping right now
I know.
with the two of them because the baby is so into everything
the older brother is running around all over the place
I know
that's hard.
I understa ,
I wish you could find a good Mother's Day Out because that would be good for your
I need to.
peace of mind also.
Even for just a couple a week or something
to have something like that,
think I'm going to look for that.
Remind me of that now that you mention it .
I been meaning to do that,
Because some of the churches do have them, for like six dollars per child
that's not that big a deal,
For a couple times .
that's usually like,
I don't know when mine were going to Mother's Day Out,
it was like from nine to three
that was a pretty good
pretty good time,
My baby sitter would take them and then pick them up.
that worked out real good.
That's sounds good.
I'm tickled to death.
I hope you find something
it was good talking to you.
Did we cover everything we need to?
I guess.
It said child care criteria
I think we both listed an experience .
thanks a lot.
You have a good day.
you too.
Bye bye .
Bye .
I was thinking about camping and about it.
We've even seen people with these campers
they got the big old antennas up so they can watch their T V when they're going.
Right or their
That's not,
satellite dish .
. A satellite dish?
On top of the recreational vehicles.
golly! .
That's not the kind we do.
Do you go camping?
We have a little bit
we've just gotten one of those little tents ,
that we throw out on the ground
that's what we camp in.
we kind of rough it.
so do we.
In fact, when we first got married, we would try to take these trips to Minnesota to see his family
we didn't have a tent or any camping supplies
we'd sleep on those picnic tables at roadside parks.
I know it's dangerous,
I wouldn't do it now
we did .
one time we went to Yellowstone
we were doing the same thing.
We couldn't find a place to camp
we were on top of a picnic table with sleeping bags I guess.
this ranger comes up with this light, shines it on us and said that we're just bear bait out there. A We had our food
and told us to get inside our car.
Bear bait .
Bear bait.
That would make me nervous .
Have you done any camping around here?
We've got some land at Holly Lake
outside of Tyler.
we go up there fairly often .
Sometimes we get a lot of people together to do it.
That sounds fun.
we've done things it's kind of cold.
We take extension cords
we've all got heaters in our tents.
in the Summer (( )) .
Same thing, we get our extension cords running from all these tents
we've got the fans going.
Right .
we're not roughing it too much.
we have taken T V s out there for the kids .
they've got their electrical hookups.
it's not so bad.
Do you go on long?
a week at a time or just weekends?
I think the longest we've stayed out there is like five days.
had a library at one time out there.
that's really not roughing it so much
we have gone on trips where we bathed in streams.
That's kind of different.
. I like the campgrounds that have a nice shower .
a pool to go to.
That would be nice.
we camped at the DeGray State Park in Arkansas.
In the Fall
there was nobody else,
it was just really nice, that time of year.
We had taken our electric,
blanket too, just in case it was unbearable
we didn't need it .
(( Yeah )) .
my husband has even camped at Lake Lavon
with one of his friends
he just decided to take the kids out there.
it's not very many miles from our house at all.
they had the time of their lives,
Had the boat just pulled up right by the tents.
It wasn't bad.
That sounds nice.
we've taken,
our tents though, loaded them up in car carrier and decided we were going to tent most of the way.
it ended up, when it came time for us to pull in for the night, we'd take a vote.
most of the time we decided we wanted to stay in a hotel.
Instead of getting out all that stuff,
it's a lot of work to set up just for one night.
Then you have to get up the next day and move it on.
Right .
we're set now.
We've got cook stoves
we've got our bug light
everybody's got their sleeping bags,
we got air mattresses.
We decided that was easier than cots and more comfortable.
Those are nice,
we have one of those, too.
Those double ones?
Pretty good.
We're on our third one I think.
How do you blow yours up?
We've got an electric pump that hooks into the cigarette lighter.
were looking at those in a magazine.
Last time we went, we took our vacuum cleaner with us .
I didn't know you could do that.
yeah, you can, if you can reverse the,
nozzle on your vacuum cleaner
it blows air out instead of sucking it in
you can fill them up that way
something that's smaller would be a lot more convenient.
No joke .
I hope you didn't have a big vacuum cleaner.
We have a,
and I, we have a pickup truck
there's plenty of room to hold things.
we've used a hair dryer before.
I put it on hot and also melted it.
no .
I found that you don't do that.
I didn't realize it would melt so easily.
I don't know.
our dog camping.
She likes to go out and stay in the woods.
in the tent with us.
It's fun .
I don't like it when there's mosquitos so bad.
me either.
one night we were camping
it came, just a torrential downpour.
We had the steaks on the grill.
These people were with us.
was sopping wet inside the tent.
It was just that bad, .
we decided we'd just go across the road to the office and see if we could rent anything.
I got a condo with a jacuzzi
it was wonderful.
boy .
That was lucky.
it was.
We've been lucky.
We've never really been rained on the few times we've gone.
It's horrible.
I bet it,
we camped in Virginia
we had one of those little pop up tents, which is really nice because it kind of gets you off the ground.
it seemed like it rained every weekend for about we were really into camping.
You mean that you put on a truck or what?
It's a little trailer you pull behind your car
the lid pops off,
the little tent comes up the top
it had two double beds in it.
How many weeks have you been doing these calls?
since the beginning.
I guess it's been two or three weeks.
I think this must be into my third week too.
do you work for T I?
I work as a temporary in the Speech Lab.
In a Speech Lab?
Where they're doing this program. The Voice Recognition Program.
what exactly are they going to do?
they turn them over to somebody
try to teach computers how to recognize voices and search for specific words and stuff.
any voice, no matter what the speech pattern or the dialect
or anything.
I wonder if these are going to be speaking . The computers,
I don't know.
I type up the tapes of what people talked about.
that's kind of neat.
it's sort of interesting.
Do you put all the huhs in here on everything, too.
Everything like that.
All the little stutters and everything.
What do you write for stutter?
if they say I, I, we just type it in like that.
I guess that's it for camping, .
I guess so unless you want to talk about stakes.
What size stakes to put in .
You need metal instead of plastic.
you make sure that you keep up with them for the next time.
We got one of those kind that have got the,
oh what is it?
They're plastic
they've got the elastic on the inside of the poles
you just put them together.
That's what we have, too.
it's a dome tent.
that's what ours is.
That's good isn't it .
they pop up pretty fast.
Have you ever camped on sand?
That can be a mess.
We camped at the beach one time
that was sort of miserable.
You just couldn ,
everywhere you went there was sand.
You couldn't,
even when you're eating,
was in your bed .
I've done it in a shelter.
(( It was )) in Padre Island and in a
truck off Corpus, not,
but not in a tent.
that's about all (( )) .
(( Okay )) .
it's good talking to you.
Get us going.
you at T I Austin
I left T I in January
I signed up for this before I did.
that's great.
my daughter has talked to, my daughter up here with us,
I have another one,
she's talked to students,
I guess they have, sent this to their customers and people in colleges and things.
if you're a computer user,
my daughter has talked to two students, that were non,
I think that's a,
T I ers.
I guess,
that's a good idea.
All right.
on finances,
no .
I when they announced there would be no salary increases in ninety one, because definitely need to make a little more money,
I haven't really accomplished that yet,
I'm trying.
the finances,
I guess (( we're )) on the subject of finances,
it is tough.
I've been with T I,
I'm just going to be fifteen years this year
that's a tough thing, the salary thing.
T I doesn't quite always do it right.
what about our financial budget.
should have a lot of information on a budget, then, if you're,
I wish I did.
hope a person who does things better than,
don't have a budget.
That's one of my goals for this year is to try to get myself in a good, long range planning budget mode.
I'm a single mom
I've been just, trying to get,
you deserve an honor for that, a gold star for that, I guess .
Thank you,
it's nice to have someone understand that.
about yourself,
do you have a budget you live by?
I guess I do,
I do have a long term budget bec ,
I got a daughter in college and one going to be in college
that, I've been thinking about that for quite a while.
I'll tell you a funny story about budgeting,
I've been married twenty six years
I did, that the macho thing,
the man always did the bills for,
I don't know, fifteen years or more,
I got so sick of it, trying to balance the budget, one,
I always tried to show my wife, here's how you,
once a year I'd say, here's how you do the budget in case I get sick,
here's how you do the checks,
One day I gave her the checkbook
I said, I'm not doing this anymore.
You do it,
you learn it,
I've been happy ever since.
that's great.
How about your,
She does it all now for about ten years,
I don't even,
she complains to me about it,
she threatens me to give it back to me,
(( )) .
I said, I've been a happy man since I haven't,
fooled with that checkbook, .
I know it's a big pain to try to do that.
It really is.
really is.
that was always major problem in our marriage.
What I have always identified is I am basically good with money.
don't really need a budget to tell me not to spend it.
think that comes from never having enough.
I'm always afraid going to need some and where will it be.
I've finally worked myself into a spot where I can budget.
was first divorced, down and budgeted
I had outgo that was higher than what I had coming in.
I think, that that is a tough,
we all,
that way.
I tried to hang onto a house that was way too expensive for me,
past that, I can sit down and say, okay,
this is the reality.
This is how much money I have each month.
The scary thing is, as far as long term, I don't have anything.
I don't know if you have an I R A or,
I've got two girls, also,
I haven't saved anything for their college
need to do that. I'll give you a hint.
I don't know if you're person listener.
Do you listen to radio talk shows?
Sometimes I have.
Listen to Bruce Williams, for financial advice.
He's on,
I don't know what he's going to be in Austin.
He's on five seventy here.
Inter ,
he's nationally famous.
He's a college graduate type guy.
He's been in all,
he's an entrepreneur
he gives very practical financial advice about cars, very, nothing college level, basic stuff.
His name is Bruce Williams,
he's on national radio.
I don't know,
what it would be down there.
You might want to,
whatever your radio talk shows are down there, he's on that channel.
I'll check that out.
it's five seventy up here.
I'd listen to talk shows for everything, for gardening and everything, just when I'm doing chores,
You've learned a lot.
he gives a wealth of information, very practical stuff
he will help you avoid a lot of little things, financially.
good to know how,
a lot of advice out there for how to get a budget.
not expert, again, because,
I don't really do it monthly.
you must have done something.
You're, you're helping your children in school
I did start a college fund.
one again at U T down there now,
her first year,
she's almost gone through her whole college fund, .
Excuse me, Jim,
could you hold on?
I have someone at the door.
go ahead.
I'll be right back.
Thank you.
I think we might have just screwed up the computer
we'll find out.
(( yeah,
right )) ,
they give us ten minutes,
the only advice I give you on college would be, there's a lot of scholarship money out there.
My daughter got a little bit, not much, only first year
she got about two thousand dollars worth,
you ought to, as your daughters approach the college age, start finding out about the scholarship monies because there is a lot of money out there
how did your daughter get scholarship money on?
She got, five hundred dollars clip through bands, through leadership.
there's all kinds of civic organ , organizations that will give you, one shot money.
you get a president's award if high school doing cer ,
this up in Arlington.
there's a lot of,
of course, score high on the S A T,
you can get, two thousand a year, or more.
You can get yearly money as long as you keep up your grades.
did very well in school
she only got first year money.
She got about two thousand dollars.
It was only five hundred,
dollars at a clip from this organization.
We called.
two or three people,
there was some little civic organization in Dallas that gave money away
only two or three people applied.
She applied and got five hundred dollars from that.
I'm definitely going to be
look into that bit,
actively looking into that.
The year that they graduate, before, though, while (( they're graduating )) , there's all kinds of little bitty money that little clubs will give away, churches and everything,
they (( don't )) even have a dozen applicants because, the kids are going off after the big money.
of course, you have to have some sort of record in high school, of, of achievement and everything,
sometimes it's just,
our band gave money away.
We're a band booster club.
two five hundred dollar scholarships just to kids, who we think were worthy, know
that's great to know.
There's money out there.
that's good.
Go ahead,
you can talk.
I want to chew up the whole line
just fine,
usually like to ask a lot of questions.
I was wondering what you do at T I.
I'm an engineer.
working the night because of the cutbacks and everything.
my job,
there were three managers jobs that were just dissolved
they put me on nights.
call this my recession job.
I'm working nights just kind of covering, shutdown equipment and everything,
and just being available,
I don't mind.
it beats being laid off and everything.
you got to be a little flexible.
in my old age I'm trying to just hang in there until I get my kids through school
I'd like to teach, maybe mathematics or something.
I'm trying to study for that now.
I hope you can do that.
I did is
I was approached
went to T I just right at the time that, my marriage was ending.
I had been stay at home mom
very fortunate in starting,
I really enjoyed it while I was at T I,
the cutbacks were really getting to be rather frightening
I had less than five years
also, I wanted to make a little bit more money.
I decided I'd like to go out and try sales.
out trying to sell telephone systems to businesses.
the potential there is fantastic.
The reality of it is it's tough .
it's tough right now for everybody.
Up here in the Dallas Metroplex it's awful.
I've got another clue for you for college.
Another clue for you for college money.
Go to work for U T.
we have a friend a secretary for T C U, up here?
They give you scholarship, a hundred percent, for T C U.
They do?
I'm going to check that.
I've got,
check that one out,
I've got two friends that work U T.
I didn't know that all.
Ask them about it.
Call them.
Definitely, I will.
it's scholarship.
it's, not room and board,
it's tuition, full tuition paid if your parent works at T C U.
that sounds fantastic.
mother went over there just for that ...
Brent, gave up my career about three years ago to stay home with my children because I thought, only going to be another year until the youngest is in school.
I thought it was a good sacrifice to make,
because, it was important to me spend some time with kids.
I know that when I was in school and getting my degree at the same time really hard on our family because come home
I would leave,
I would come home
he would leave,
I think one day one of our kids said,
someone came home
they said, when is dad leaving or something.
It was like that they thought that's the way life was,
that you didn't have two parents at home at the same time.
I think, it's become real important to me that we try to spend time together as a family.
there's one or two nights a week, we have a,
on Monday nights we set aside time where it's called, family home evening
we stay home that evening, all of us,
we do things together.
You must be a (( )) .
So am I.
you are?
what a coincidence.
I know what family home evening's all about.
you do that
we try to do a family activity on Saturday,
usually in the morning.
the family home evening, too.
sometimes we try to do our lesson on Sunday night and then our activity or something on Monday
real important to us to spend time together.
that's good.
how many children do you have?
I have two.
do you have?
I have a girl and a boy,
the boy's five,
he's in kindergarten,
the girl is four.
She'll be in kindergarten next year.
Five and four.
I have two daughters.
My oldest is, four
my youngest is about to turn three.
Two girls.
they are a handful .
They are a handful.
when we first got married, my wife worked for a year.
Then we decided to have kids.
got pregnant
we decided she would stay home with the kids.
We would make that sacrifice.
It is a financial sacrifice to make because we go from two incomes down to one.
we made that decision
had the first baby, she stayed home.
we had a second baby
she's still at home .
at work a lot of people are,
I think (( )) this is not a normal situation anymore world we live in.
Most of them, continue to work if they kids.
I only have one other person I know group here that works where the wife stays home,
that's because of religious values as well.
They're Baptists
think that's important.
everybody else works
they drop their kids off at day care leave them
I don't know, strangers raising my children.
it's not as stable for the kids,
decided to come over and talk to me right now.
it's, yeah.
That's how it is at our house when you're on the phone.
it's open,
anything goes when mom's on the phone .
it's also important, I think, for my husband.
try to go out of my way plan things that he can do with the kids because,
he needs to have, some time with them.
puts the kids to bed,
he reads to them,
he spends about an hour doing that,
pretty good quality time,
with them,
it's hard for him on Saturdays.
With all the yard work and things like that.
Right, he wants to run out and get things done,
I try to say, why don't you go fly kites
why don't you
do something.
if I have something in mind, then remembers that,
that's what he wants to do.
we feel that, just spending time together.
You don't necessarily have to be doing anything, that costs money that requires you to go a great distance or anything like that.
It's just the kids like together as a family.
Like last Saturday we went, had some errands to run
we took the kids and, and went by the Farmers Market down there in Garland.
they had a blast running around the Farmers Market looking at all the,
the food and tasting all the free samples they were giving out.
they had a little pen there with animals in they could pet,
they liked that.
on the way home we drove by the local high school
there happened to be an Future Far , F A, Future Farmers of America, F F A
going on there,
they had all kinds of pigs and horses and goats and sheep and everything, all out in this schoolyard there.
we just said, let's stop
the kids got to go around and, see pigs and animals and things like that,
for them that's wonderful,
thought it was the greatest fun,
it didn't cost any money.
you don't have quite as much money the wife doesn't work.
that's right.
I do think, the current trends are that, the family unit is devaluated.
It's not
nearly as important.
We find that, back just even fifty years ago when people had financial problems, the first place they went to was their family.
families took care of themselves
support each other that way.
definitely motherhood is devalued in this
If you're, stay at home and you're a mother, it's what a waste.
People think, you should be fulfilling yourself
a mother isn't an important
That's right
important thing having a career
that should be first and, and children second.
they don't have internal perspective of things.
it's not an easy sacrifice for a person to make,
because, have interests that,
it is hard to make, those interests not be as a major part of my life.
at this point.
It's not to say that some day you won't go back to work.
My mother's a school teacher
we started, having kids, she had to work for a little while,
then she just started substituting.
she would just substitute once or twice a week, just for that little extra money when we were in school.
Then we would just come home and just to a neighbor's house for an hour,
then she'd be home.
she wouldn't do that every day.
youngest sister's at B Y U now,
they have no one at home,
she's back teaching school full time now, again.
it's just a temporary thing.
It is temporary.
seems like a long time,
you're right,
it is temporary.
I see that we both share the same belief here that
it's important that we spend time with our kids
in spite of,
it's hard sometimes at work because, people say, we're taking a cruise,
we're going here,
we're going there,
because they have a lot more money.
a lot of them decide just not to have children.
amazing, they either have one or none.
That's true.
the one person I know that has one, feel guilty.
She has this continual guilt trip that she's not doing the right thing,
weekends she would, spend all of her time with her kids and spend money.
Basically, I think really spoil the child,
to try to overcompensate for their guilt feelings.
they don't want to have anymore children because she could be a mother at home.
That's not her bag.
she just doesn't think that she could,
the guilt feelings, she can't deal with
with it anymore
it is,
the hardest thing I've ever done, as much as you'd go out
my wife, likes staying home.
she works at home some, though.
The place she before, worked out an arrangement with her where she can work at home,
that's good.
part time,
kind of a seasonal thing.
Three times a year she's really busy doing certain things
based on that kind of business,
the rest of the time she's free.
She likes to sew and do crafts and things like that .
she enjoys staying at home,
the money part of it is not as rewarding, obviously,
there's different rewards, different kinds of rewards.
I think so.
I think it's an investment in your future, even if it's purely religious.
You can at least say that it's important to our country,
that our family unit stays strong.
you really have to make, quite a bit of money.
The (( wife doesn't )) make it worth it, with the cost of day care.
I know there's,
when you adjust your income for what you put out for day care, you're only making five.
Here we go.
now we're supposed to talk about social activities.
the changes that's occurred,
maybe ten, twenty, thirty years ago as opposed to what it is today
how we're living socially in comparison to maybe from that time period from ten, twenty, or whatever you remember it to be.
it would be like your generation compared to my generation.
I think your generation is,
what do I say,
they're polite,
they have more respect for,
other people, just general I think, and towards people and property
guess they be more conservative, some of them I guess.
we are, somewhat conservative,
our crime rate has increased,
although it's more publicized as opposed to what it used to be it seems like
violent crime is on the increase from what I've seen,
our prison population has significantly increased I would say.
our economy, too, just not what it used to be in the sixties or even fifties from history from what I've read,
even the,
it started spiraling down, I suppose, in the seventies,
our recovery, economically has not been like it used to be.
To me, also, our nuclear family is not the same because more people are living together
that aren't married
know if,
can't make any judgments of that nature,
I don't really want to ,
because I have no problems about it either way
kids are, suppose have been raised by single parents more than they ever used to
Yes, I agree with,
women are more on the rise too
so far as getting their careers established,
they don't
no longer feel dependent upon men,
do you think that that maybe,
I've heard different,
I know my mom and other ladies, they complain because they think that, the women now are too busy with their own personal life and career that they really don't have time for their kids.
That's probably true,
are, a lot of them that have to put their kids into day care
or having more with baby sitters,
especially if they don't have boy friends or husbands,
I guess that's why you always hear these stories about kids being neglected.
in fact, there was one lady in this area,
she was caught going to work and leaving her daughter in her car all day.
my gosh, just a baby.
Not a baby, she was old enough to,
I would say she was five to eight years old
my gosh.
somewhere along that range,
that's just an extreme example.
I would imagine, the situations are out there.
I think has, increased dramatically,
then I think also that we're forgetting basic things, we should know
I agree there.
think, in the morals and values of my generation people are totally different from the morals and of per se your generation.
I think as we get older, it gets to your,
I think the kids now I would say, louder now until after they reach like twenty five,
I think they really have a strong decline and start to settle down and realize things.
I could agree with that, because used to conservatism was inherent at a much younger age,
because I think we're given more now, whereas you had to work for everything,
kids nowadays are just given so much that they really don't have to work,
don't have any intent to go working until they have to.
that's an agreeable topic there .
what else considering beside family, economics,
our transportation system has changed for us.
now travel around the world in no time.
It's just a hop, skip and a jump to get into a plane to go from the east to the west coast
think what's happened, too, is just our technology is just advancing so rapidly that, and there's so much information available out there that folks out there just have a hard time keeping up, aside from just going through their daily routine of living to get from day to day
to keep abreast of the knowledge out there, we got to constantly read, go to school,
T V watching gone too much out the door because T V is still,
the cable system and the satellite dishes has made it to where a lot of people can just leave regular T V programming and watch programs out there, as well as use of the V C R
I don't know if it really hampers or it helps our education system.
I don't know, because hardly any T V.
Thursday night I like to sit down and watch a few shows,
Do you watch L A LAW?
I don't watch that .
I used to,
I don't any more.
I like that.
a few up here, we call them couch potatoes,
they love to sit in front of the T V,
I (( ))
for the most part,
I live in an all girls dorm,
for the most part we're all between the ages of eighteen like twenty one
there isn't really a lot of T V watching.
that's good,
at least you're hitting the books, right.
They're either hitting the books or something else,
I don't know what,
they have their crowds, like during the soap operas, like in between classes or something
I can't say that there's really that many people that sit in front of the T V all day.
that's a change then,
of course, going to school, too, it's different from the home environment,
I know this girl.
She's doing her student teaching
she's just working within the school,
yesterday she was at the kindergarten,
there's this little boy,
he didn't want to do anything,
he said I'm not doing this,
I don't like it,
he sat at his desk with two pencils in his hand, and pretend like he's playing Nintendo
I don't know how,
I never really watched when I was younger,
my parents really didn't allow us to watch that much T V,
I don't know.
I agree with your parents,
because, T V kind of ruined me,
all that we had
not really,
it's, for the top medium of entertainment.
T V in the Winter time,
in the Summer, like right now, my mom, she doesn't let us watch T V until like eight o'clock at night,
Even at your age?
my younger brothers and sisters at home.
when it starts
getting nice outside in the Summer and everything
makes us go outside,
even now when I go home for the Summer, she makes us go outside,
we're allowed to come in and watch T V until it's dark, because she doesn't like the T V herself
I see.
if it was up to her, we wouldn't have one.
she feels that kids are too dependent on it also.
Is there anything else?
What about in our work ethics?
Work ethics, .
(( )) better. a little,
of course, we're having to weather through the savings and loans
all the other scandalous items that, the greed that overwhelmed us in the eighties
I it's going to have to have it's patchwork put on us
because we have so much to pay for now.
It's going to be really passed on to your generation and maybe a few others
including what's left of ours .
I really can't think of anything else.
it was nice talking to you.
It was nice talking to you too.
what are majoring in?
Hi, this is Judy,
I'm from Maryland
I'm in California visiting right now.
Hi, Judy.
This is Norma,
I live in Virginia .
We got a great topic .
I know.
I'm sitting here going dear .
Should we give it a try?
I guess we might as well .
Okay .
Let you start ,
what changes have you seen? .
What changes,
I guess the biggest,
I don't know your age Judy,
in my lifetime the biggest is in more women working,
that's what I was thinking too.
just to jump ahead a little bit
then we can back up.
Is it, perhaps, woman in politics is for the future.
I don't see that really yet in positions of power, really.
I don't see them in positions of power in corporation either
not many.
That's true.
That's true.
do you work in private corporation or government?
I did work in government.
before that I worked in a bank for eight years.
now I'm retired.
That's the best status.
That's right.
Which do you work in,
A government.
A government.
I work in academia before.
there's one, woman in our, institute who is a manager
in a since, perhaps, because it's almost like a token.
it's sort of unfortunate because, I think that they don't accept her technically
she's a good paper pusher.
it's in a technical position really.
she should be more technical for what she does.
I think that's sort of unfortunate,
because really help the cause in the long run .
I don't know.
teaching I still see that that's where most of the woman are.
In teaching.
In teaching.
it's always been that way.
not at the college level.
We live in a college town
I worked at the university for a while.
woman there
they're not the high paid
Not department,
professors that,
the men are .
Not the deans and things like that.
they did have one woman dean
I guess probably did very well
that's the minority.
do you think it's because women aren't qualified or don't want the job or just aren't hired for the jobs.
None of the above .
I think they are extremely well qualified.
I don't know how,
They're just not selected somehow.
I think they're not selected,
of course, at this university,
a big engineering school
I don't think there are many women in the engineering college.
that's where the high pay is.
I'm wondering how many women actually major in engineering.
I say that
yet I know too.
Quite an,
I think there are more than there used to be.
I'm sure there are, yeah.
they may not go into teaching,
the two that I know obviously are not in teaching
I suppose in a since I was surprised when they told me they majored in engineering.
I don't know why.
don't know that many men that have majored in engineering,
huh .
it's not,
it's not something that I tend to hear about.
it's a,
I met one one day that, had just joined the faculty in agricultural engineering
that really surprised me.
that's interesting,
suppose it's difficult to really say why because, probably are a limited number of women who are interested in the subject and well qualified.
maybe there aren't, .
Maybe they don't apply for the job.
I don't know.
know how many go on and get a P H D in engineering.
Which could be, cultural anyway.
That could be.
That's true.
So that it might be circularly being the same problem expecting not to get hired for the good jobs anyway,
why spend your time getting qualified.
That's right.
It's situation.
I guess me is the number of men who are willing to stay home with the kids
in our case we actually have one father who works part time, a six,
hour day so that he can take the or kid, I'm not sure,
That's interesting,
to school in the morning and be home when the children or child,
comes home in the afternoon.
the major wage earner,
This is,
did she earn more money that he did
I don't know anything about the family
I would imagine she might.
a really nice guy
he did say that because he was in the humanities and he's now working in more of a technical situation that he had trouble finding a job.
So that was more qualified.
still it's interesting that, he,
he's been doing this evidently for good number of years.
it's unusual.
I know one, gal
a C P A,
her husband is a house husband.
they had a child
was still the house husband.
He wasn't,
he was,
going to,
even before they had children.
Even before that,
really is .
She was a little perturbed about it.
she was.
At one time.
it is now
I know, all went out one evening
an underlying note she was perturbed about it.
I think it would strike one as strange if there's no reason for
somebody to stay home that,
I don't think there was a valid reason .
. That's true.
Because her statement was, I told him let's face it
you're a house husband
always be.
yet, we have to think about that
she had offered to stay home we wouldn't have thought anything stran ,
She wouldn't have be,
that's right.
that's right.
have been a (( doubter )) .
carrying our own prejudice .
That's true.
I guess we can't win .
Because if somebody does if and breaks tradition you're surprised.
if .
That's right .
I think maybe more men would like to be if they
If they could get away with it .
weren't put down so badly .
an interesting topic
yet I must say it's not one that I've given a great deal of,
of thought to
I didn't.
in the past.
It's, one of those things that, seems to happen.
How do you feel your career has gone?
feel for the most part that I've been discriminated against.
You don't.
That's good.
I was a department chairman.
don't like administration.
then I'm, probably a poor example, although, I was an administrator and could still be I suppose.
I was discriminated against very definitely in banking.
It was terrible.
more ambitious than they would let you be?
the money didn't go with the positions.
I would,
The came
comparable pay for the responsibility.
I was told you don't need as much pay as I have because your children are older than my children,
your husband has a good job
in a since I suppose, when I was hired into the government, I was taken advantage of
that's true that, sometimes other people higher increments,
I thi ,
for, even,
I think we, are programmed to just take it
as it comes.
That's probably true.
thought about it because I do like what I do
I just sort of ignore the administrative,
part of it since I didn't like it I had to do it.
figure, like it.
It must be a rotten job for everybody .
I know some people thrive on it .
since I don't have a whole lot more to say on the topic.
I don't,
I think, this is a tough subject because, when you come from two different parts of the country, the political views are really different.
I guess I've had to discuss a number of what might be considered controversial issues,
is as awful as abortion
gun control and, day care an things like that,
there are some very different views, of the people connected with the program which I thought was really interesting,
say two different parts of the country
are you referring to yourself
being Baltimore
Maryland is prob , a hub of liberalism ,
compared to the country,
many ways, very liberal
very somewhat to New England
though Pennsylvania and New York, aren't actually as liberal,
Maryland is a very liberal, state
gun control laws
we probably have some of the strictest gun control laws in the nation
most people in Maryland vote for that,
it really is a different,
of course, you talk gun controls down here in Texas
you're asking to be lynched.
right talk to,
I had to talk about gun control with somebody
I talked with a woman who actually, just purchased a gun that day,
and was going target shooting,
it was very different
it was a whole,
different view.
opened my eyes to thinking,
at one time I just sat here and thought, how can anybody believe that
I'd really never met people that did,
now, I talk to people that do.
really interesting.
it's very true,
I'm a, New Yorker by birth.
Although I claim Florida as my home now,
I have two sons living down there
I also have two sons living elsewhere,
one in Tennessee, one in Mississippi.
I lived for ten years
I kind of like it down there,
they had a gun control law which went a little bit too far.
I think
in your words,
they were a little bit too liberal.
isn't it funny.
they permitted their carrying concealed weapons.
they did away with it.
I think in the next session modified it
it's still legal to own or possess weapons in Florida.
you can possess 'em here too
Brady Bill that's
currently being discussed nationally and whatever is very well supported here, in gun control avenues,
the the delay
You have the seven day waiting period.
I don't
mind that too much
with the N R A myself.
Really the only objection we have Is give a little
next thing you know (( )) somebody's trying to take more.
that's true
that's very true
way I guess most of
political organizations work
the same I know the abortion issue with right to life and right to choose
both of them
are both want the extent of extremes so that they don't give anything for a balance
there's there's always that difficulty
then tell me
do you consider yourself a liberal?
I would say I'm probably liberal
me ask you this then.
feeling about expressing yourself by burning the American flag?
I'll tell you.
think didn't give as much coverage to these idiots that burn the flag, it would never happen
do you know what I mean?
It's only because they make a big stink over it.
guess I believe that if somebody wants to burn the flag I guess that's their opportunity
they're right in the sense of freedom of speech
would never
now wait a minute
you just said it.
It's their right by freedom of speech?
What does speech have to do with
burning a flag?
Well it's free
that they
I think the idea of freedom of speech goes back to
the the whole aspect
of being able to display
is that they can do that
though I would never even consider
it in a million years to do it myself
I think D you
what the stands for I guess to me is
that if somebody wants to voice their opinion or display their opinion openly and if that is way that they can show
their opinion then they should be allowed
to ...
unless the actual fire hinders somebody's health and well being
guess that's I thin that's my opinion
I guess you feel differently.
Then would you condone the burning of the capitol building?
I think it's that's taxpayer's money.
If somebody
buys their own flag burns it that's fine
that's destruction public
property and whatever.
then you don't draw a line between public property and public symbol.
I don't know
I guess the symbolism
I think what America stands for is the right to be able to disagree with the government.
think that's
I go
back to the second amendment
You can disagree
by freedom of speech
has nothing to do with action.
I think
against that.
I guess
the idea they always keep saying the framers.
of for bench
they always talk about (( )) they feel that this person believes in the framing of the constitution what
the original framers the ideals the original framers set down.
I believe that the idea of burning
the flag is is in
my understanding of how it was framed is that the thing about this country is that you can disagree with its government
you can display
I Yeah,
I g
so that as a freedom of expression and speech and
whatever think that that's viable.
as long as it's your flag you've made point. I think.
realistically, you don't think it's right
I would never do it.
love this country too much,
that symbol means a lot to me.
I guess it's just one of those things where it's a need for them
again we
even though with me
you wouldn't do it yourself.
Nevertheless you maintain that the right any citizen
to burn the symbol of their country.
so long as it's their possession.
that's fine up to there except that flag symbolizes is is this country,
I used to know as a Boy Scout
all I remember was the red in the flag represented the blood that was shed to to create this country,
and to maintain it.
to me that's black eye to every man that ever a weapon or killed for his country.
I agree there too.
I agree with you there too.
the I I it's I find it you know personally disgusting
have a right to stop somebody from that
the same I don't know
I guess all
mixed up inside. when,
It's very easy to do.
it g when an emotional issue,
you sit
you try and think
about it logically
you try to say to yourself emotionally this is a disgusting thing,
even for instance, the pro life pro choice movement,
I don't know anybody that actually supports abortion,
would vote pro choice.
you know That's just a disgusting thing
an abortion means it's somebody's in trouble and that it's an awful thing,
I think it should be permitted under certain circus
that's what I mean,
realistically when you think of it it just sounds like such an awful thing,
it evokes an emotional response.
I think that's the hardest thing,
I don't know if I could ever be a judge, because
tell me
ever been decided is a fetus a human?
I think the
sometimes I guess
what did I read recently
the Christian point
always the point of it's at conception
then a friend of mine's a doctor and argues with others that conception is a biblical term.
there's no concept of conception in medicine or biology.
throws out that idea makes it a religious discussion then.
don't know.
it's It's a it's a topsy turvy world
it's really something how political
ideas and viewpoints within one country can vary so much and also within
it can
how Yeah
how it'll sway from to another.
I think that just read something I think in TIME magazine about protest
I think that in this day and age everyone needs to have some sort of exposure to community service
seems like
thinking of people that are in jail now,
I think that maybe if some of those people had gotten exposed to the community, gotten exposed to working with other people that some of the things that they did they would not have done
understand people more,
they understand helping people more,
they understand the plight of people.
That's true.
I agree with you in the sense that, I think that it's important for people to, also share, give something of themselves
I think that there's too much in a way of self gratification today,
there's not enough sharing.
I would think that for, like people that are just filthy, filthy rich,
I think that they would benefit also in doing community service so that they can see
speaking about people that are born rich,
that's all they know,
I'm thinking that community service would help them, just get a feel of what else is out there, how other people are living,
if they were to work I don't know, a soup kitchen or something,
they would understand how other people live
on the same note people, are working serve the community, I don't know, they probably have a better perspective itself.
I think the Peace Corps is great too,
because, go to different countries
you see,
in fact I saw an interview on T V the other night with, Patrick Swayze,
he's making a movie in, I think it's, Calcutta or either India,
somewhere where a very poor, poor country,
he said that people in the west,
he said since being there
he said that his whole idea of what's important has changed,
he said that people have no idea, he said, what human sacrifice is,
since being there learned be poor and have nothing
yet those people have, such, a happy,
other words they don't dwell what they don't have.
they dwell on what they do have
they're happy with each other type of thing.
That's great.
he knows that it, it's changed his life.
think that that,
this, on the same note being
he was exposed to that
maybe he wasn't before,
now he sees,
I think that anybody that works service or for the community or something,
they can see,
you can't know what you don't see,
Exactly right.
you have to experience some things.
You know a lot of people know are poor
they don't know what poor is,
unless they actually see it and, help or something.
know that must be true especially if you do something along the lines of, helping them learn how to survive, how to plant,
how to find water
I've seen so many,
extraordinary things on T V,
that people have done working in the Peace Corps and how, the people of the community they worked in is so much better,
it's like one person can make a difference,
really believe that they can in something like that.
There's something really be skeptical of,
you watch television
you'll see the service announcement for children in other countries
if you want to send fifty cents a day,
or something like that
you can help a child.
just me
I don't know whether to trust that or not,
I mean there are so many scams,
I know
how do yo ,
and things going on,
I would love to help somebody,
bring myself to trust this,
this company who is trying to do this or whatever it is,
money hungry,
I know.
that I think they would do anything,
It's true,
it really is.
you don't know what they,
It's the sad life I think today.
it's not like it used to be even the years of my growing up.
I'm fifty three years old,
I have seen a town change from a town to a city and its,
people, grow from a small town to a large town,
you would think that more people would be better, share more,
do more, be more community oriented and all,
if they just get more, unto themselves kind of,
More self centered, huh.
it's not the sharing of,
a neighbor to a neighbor
we would go out and not even lock our doors
and not even worry about it.
you can't do that today.
today, it's like you wouldn't even think of doing that.
If you don't have bars on the window you're not even safe
Even I first moved to Dallas from New York, it seemed like Dallas was so open,
everybody left their,
doors open,
you just run,
in the store,
you leave your car running,
this was only,
I guess it has been awhile,
it's been almost ten years since I moved here.
it's amazing now how much it's changed.
I don't go out I don't go,
In Dallas I,
outside at night,
I was going to say
I, in fact I was talking to someone from Dallas, just last week
they was saying that,
in fact it was this one girl particularly that worked for T I,
she had gone overseas to Tokyo,
she asked them there if there was that she shouldn't go because she was alone,
being a girl from another country,
and everything
she said they thought for a few seconds
they said, no,
there's nowhere that you can go that you would have to be afraid.
They said to her that even if she left her purse on the subway
that she would have that purse returned to her,
with nothing missing
this is a foreign country
you would think, being, an American or whatever,
a foreigner there that,
that would be all the more reason that they'd take advantage of you.
that would be the exact opposite of here.
if you leave something anywhere you might as well forget it.
she could tell them for fifteen minutes places not to go in,
in and around Dallas,
that's where she was from.
That is sad.
She said even choosing her apartment she had to be so careful because of being a woman alone,
You know she had,
there are certain.
a big, that's a big thing with me.
I live in a one bedroom,
I'm single,
live in an apartment,
I live in Waco,
you live in really low priced housing you live on the other side of town in the high price apartments.
I live,
I don't make a lot of money
I live in the high price apartments simply because I feel safe here
probably the hundred or hundred fifty dollars more than I would be paying somewhere else
I wouldn't be able to sleep at night
and that to me is worth the extra money
for me to be,
I feel very safe where I am,
instead of,
why I think if people were more exposed to,
especially, young kids getting out of high school.
I mean at one time they would go into the service,
to have the same exposure and, to further their worldliness, so to speak.
And go to see, foreign countries that they would not necessarily be able to afford to see,
it was like they said,
join the Navy to see the world type of thing,
nowadays, they don't do that anymore.
It's not
a lot of young men don't even, have the desire to go into the service.
they don't even consider it.
Or to, do something for someone else.
I don't know
I attributed I think, a lot of that to women working.
to mothers not being at home.
I was talking to someone yesterday about that.
the bonding process,
we were saying that family disrupted these days,
It very definitely is.
I think, before the father would work
the mother, would stay home
having that mother there, that base, I think,
That's right.
was a big part family, a big part what, youngsters thought about, what they did,
the thing is,
I think a man can afford to support a woman,
the woman affords the luxuries.
other words anyone can live,
on a certain income no matter what it is,
you have to,
so to speak.
what's important to you.
a family,
think that girls today, have children,
six weeks later they're back to work.
They don't even have a bonding with that child,
don't see the,
the most beautiful thing that happens between a mother and a child.
The first, like say, six,
years of life.
So much,
When I call,
happens in that period of time,
I mean once the child's in school if you had a job from say nine to three,
big deal,
in school,
you're at work.
That's great.
it's kids that come home and don't have a mother there
or the kids are at home in the morning and ...
(( )) .
Where you on the a long time?
I've been sitting here alternately reading and watching television .
waiting for what again?
he called in to get somebody on the line,
it took him about half an hour to find somebody.
That's what this was
let me go a head and push one
basically I like comedy shows .
MURPHY BROWN, DESIGNING WOMEN (( )) .
what do you like?
we don't have a T V,
we have two T V s
neither one of them work,
for the last year,
we just got married
we decided for the first year won't get a T V
I'm totally out of it as far,
as T V goes.
That's okay
we'll been married eleven years
we went through that after about five years of marriage,
my old T V that I had from college when we got married finally went out
almost about eighteen months without a television.
then all of a sudden when you get one you realize, gee .
I needed that,
then you get to remote control the stereo phonic,
whatever all of those things,
V C R, and everything else.
then you never use the V C R,
and now we have two of them
now it's like we're just glad we never went out and bought a compact disk player cause we wouldn't use it .
it's cause your never home,
you're working,
you're at school.
I don't know T V shows,
what can I tell you,
basically junk that's on television .
That's my opinion
I like things like I just mentioned,
have you ever seen MURPHY BROWN, or anything like that?
I don't think so .
You don't think so,
that's the one with Candice Bergen in it,
see another thing was I worked on second shift for like a year and a half,
that would do it.
I would never see any shows any way
before that I was in college for four years
I never watched T V then because I didn't have time.
nobody does yeah, then,
I know.
I mean I did watch T V
it was soaps and M T V cause the girls I lived with never changed the channels (( )) .
I don't,
you're probably at least ten years younger then I am
I could tell you in school that, the only thing that ever saw in the dorm was, the one soap opera, ALL MY CHILDREN.
until then I never paid attention to soap operas.
Me too.
to this day twenty years later in my thirties,
I'm not that old,
I'm going, jeez, I can't believe that thing's still on television .
I know,
got hooked on it cause everybody would took about it at dinner and everything else
about the only other kinds of things I like,
I like to watch a lot of news,
don't you miss that with not having a television so far?
How long has it been since you've had one?
a year.
my God .
you've got about another six months
you'll get one .
By then,
I never really watched it much growing up
I thought, my husband would really miss it because was an only child
a lot of T V.
I figured no
it will never last
I don't miss it that much.
my husband is an only child too
he did miss it
that's kind of why we got back after eighteen months,
That's funny.
I'm trying to think about the only other show I watch.
I've seen CHEERS probably five times
I've seen SHOW probably ten times.
I like COSBY,
L A LAW is probably,
I've seen CHEERS
more then that I hate to admit
It's pretty cool
I like that whenever I watch it.
I thought it was good,
I've actually been to that bar in Boston
pretty funny show.
you have?
I've heard it's pretty cool.
It's just a, over priced downtown,
Boston yuppie,
tourist attraction.
I'm trying to think what else is on television,
I know it's like.
I watched a lot of T V when the war was on.
who didn't?
Isn't that sad?
I like watching a lot of college basketball and,
and pro football,
that sounds kind of stupid
I do like it.
basket ball as opposed to,
(( )) I watch pro football
I like the N B A play offs,
back when the Pistons were in them
where are you calling from?
Sherman, Texas.
Sherman, Texas,
Where are you from?
I'm in Dallas
I was just saying where am I calling you from,
then I don't know if you like Mavericks or not,
they haven't been that good this year.
we're supposed to talk about television
let's see ,
you don't have a T V.
are you really from Texas though?
I'm talking to you from Dallas,
sounds like you're from up north.
My voice you mean?
that's just because I've moved around
I'm originally from Pennsylvania,
I was going to say.
I wondered any teams you like watching from up north or something.
I'm a big Chicago Bears' fan.
Real big
I always watch them no matter who's on,
of course you like them too, right.
Do you?
I'm from Indiana.
I like the Bears.
there you go,
then ,
I'm trying to think what else I like to watch on television sports wise.
I like,
I watch,
I like tennis
played in years
I just like to watch,
two players really at it,
It gets boring after a while
I don't,
go ahead.
I OPRAH a lot in the afternoons,
OPRAH .
before I went to work and stuff
I see her every once in awhile like if I go workout at T I,
they have those T V s right,
on the,
in front of the treadmills,
on the tracks
is sh ,
I don't know
she's not as good as she use to be
Maybe cause she got chubby again or something,
her disposition's gone downhill.
show big when you where in school since you haven't been out that long?
Was what?
Was her show big when you where in college, since you,
haven't been that long?
It's pretty cool,
Was it?
back then
where she lost all of that fat?
I saw reruns of it,
it out on a (( cart )) .
I saw tapes of her ,
That was so cool,
then she's really porked out again I guess
Gee, I know
isn't that terrible.
I know
I guess with that money who cares .
I don't know.
I'd eat too.
Let's see what else is on television.
if you don't have a V C R don't even spend your money on it.
if you like movies like we do you do it once in awhile
you see it when it first comes out if you really want to see it
it usually comes on television within two years.
we got,
we've got the dollar Cinema in Sherman
we usually see first rate movies,
right away.
that's television
I don't know
in general on this project we're suppose to talk about
I'm sorry.
That's okay,
(( )) always (( )) .
it's hard to talk about something,
it's like me talking about taxes or something,
I feel bad cause
that's okay.
I should know something about T V shows.
I had one lady one time
they called in
I just signed up
my husband had been on this project,
she called in
sending your kids to college,
and why you would advise them.
she was from Boston,
pretend she was a television show,
was very snooty
her kids were going to places like Amherst and B U
I said I didn't know what that was
I thought,
I know,
it's like don't worry about it
television at least, everybody's,
at least seen television. During the war did you laugh when they had that man on,
what was his name Wolf Blitzer?
What was that?
That guy that was a reporter for C N N.
His name is Wolf Blitzer.
Did you see when he was doing the coverage of the Gulf?
I might of.
I forget.
Was he the guy that got captured?
that was the other guy from C B S,
what was his name,
I can't remember his name.
what about this Wolf guy?
(( just th )) ,
they made jokes about him on the CARSON SHOW and all of that,
Jay Leno.
You know, what my absolutely favorite show is?
DAVID LETTERMAN.
I love that guy.
he's funny.
SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE,
I use to watch that
I'd come home from second shift and watch him for an hour and a half,
he's great.
SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE has changed a lot if you haven't seen it in about a year.
I haven't seen it in a couple of months
Has it gotten better?
I think it has,
they finally (( ))
some of those people
they really have funny characters on there.
they have one character on there
they just call it Pat
don't know if it's a man or a woman .
they say they're trying to deduce what he or she is,
to see if it's a female they say do you carry a purse
Pat says no
I carry a fanny pack .
you still don't know because a fanny pack is man,
now days,
it's weird .
That's funny.
pretty funny
they do some crazy things.
when WAYNE'S WORLD,
I love that.
WAYNE'S WORLD, hey man .
what's that other one do the, skits,
you've must have seen it recently?
I don't know,
I've seen it off and on, I think.
You probably have some friends that have television ?
I said you probably have some friends that have television .
That's where I've seen it
I've seen it off and on probably.
you're not totally out of the loop.
one friend of ours got rid of his cause we were getting along out ours
he sold his.
the rest of our friends we go and watch them.
can do without one
after awhile it will start,
you just kind of all of sudden
you're going jeez
you hear about something that somebody else talked about,
you just end up doing it
if you haven't been married that long,
you're doing other things .
Is that on tape?
Is that on tape,
there you go,
That's funny.
what else is on
I don't know
what did they watch in college when you where in,
where did you go to school?
that's a good school.
I know about that.
They don't have a southern accent up there though.
You must be native Texan?
do I,
your from Indiana, yeah. *
Do I have a southern accent?
real southern,
Are you serious?
I've been here three years.
Deep one, you have a deep one,
yeah .
that's scary.
It is,
at Purdue
what Purdue kids watch.
We watch, M T V twenty four hours a day
every now and then
and watch it like four or five times a day.
That's the girls I lived with
other then that I'm sure they watched,
Do you know that I've never, I think other then accept on a commercial or on news coverage or something,
like entertainment tonight I've never seen M T V?
You aren't missing anything .
That's kind of what I've heard .
It's pretty bad.
I mean that's,
Especially if you have kids.
Don't let them watch it.
we don't
have cable
I don't think it's worth ten to thirty bucks a month to pay,
somebody, to, give me a hundred and fifty, ,
channel access to something I'm never going to,
my neighbor her husband sits in front of the television all of time
they've only been married five years have a cute one year old kids
I swear to God he works from eight,
I heard Dallas is pretty bad with the crime.
last night I was listening to the, ten o'clock news.
for the first five to seven minutes of a news broadcast all they were talking about was the number of shootings, the number of drug deals that were going on, and crime
it's so depressing just to even listen to the news anymore.
huh .
The same way here in Dennison.
back a couple weeks ago they found, some people I don't remember at some fast food restaurant.
or if they had just been thrown in the freezer
I'm pretty sure they'd been shot and put the freezer at the fast,
food restaurant.
I've in fast food restaurants.
They don't have that much money on hand,
they really don't.
I did too.
I remember to work at, Kentucky Fried Chicken.
I just couldn't believe, that
now I would hate to work at a fast food restaurant or even have my children work in one.
And, because of, the crime
that they would, kill people just for the few couple hundred dollars that they would have in there,
in their cash drawer.
My husband worked at a gas station when he was a teenager.
decided not to work one night or something
one of the guys that was working was shot,
Kenny quit the next day.
deal with it.
I understand what your talking about.
So, yeah,
I have, a real problem,
even though I live further out in the suburbs,
the crime follows you anywhere,
doesn't matter if you live in a large city like this.
I just think about different ways that we have to protect ourselves from,
It just seems like a lot of people are attracted to the bigger cities though,
the worst part of it.
I lived in Louisville, Kentucky for a while,
I lived on the outskirts too,
Louisville was pretty bad especially during the, Kentucky Derby.
At this time of the year it's horrible to live in Louisville.
I don't know,
it's asking about what kind of steps we can take, just as citizens to try and, protect ourselves.
I know I have, home security system.
I have special lights the outside.
I have,
The ones that blink off and on.
By themselves I mean.
By themselves
some kind of movement,
then they'll automatically come on.
it's just I'm constantly think about keeping us safe and protected,
How many kids do you have?
a boy or?
One of each.
that's what I've got,
It is scary,
there teenagers now.
good. (( That )) they're a comfort to you.
I've still got babies.
Okay .
I've got four year old. And a three month old.
it's scary ,
That's a problem.
I'm used to living in,
we don't live in the city,
we just.
It's still more crowded than what I'm used to,
I'm used to having, eight or ten houses on one street
this one's got houses on either side and,
real close together,
and just,
It's different,
living down here.
the nice thing,
I feel a little bit more comfort since we're so close together like this.
feel like that there's going to be, less crime
your neighbors going to be watching out for you,
because it's in their backyard, too,
we think our neighbors are stealing from us, my husband.
of them's a teenager that lives next door
her friends are pretty wild.
They've stolen gas out of our vehicles.
he went and got a locking gas cap for his.
They weren't stealing it out of mine so much, because is kind of weird where it's hard to,
syphon gas out.
went and got a locking cap
they to break that off.
my goodness.
you ,
He went down to (( Uba )) , and noticed that it was hanging off they had tried to break it off.
they stole our tailgate off his truck .
we can't say they did
Someone did,
We're pretty,
it had to be somebody that, could do it in the middle of the night
they'd seen it earlier.
I know that it's a real problem.
It doesn't matter where you are anymore.
It's, more of a matter of do to keep yourself safe,
why I try and, do,
the only thing that we can do as citizens is, like, watch groups that they'll have.
(( )) .
they can be dangerous too.
I've thought about it.
that this isn't like walking around and looking for somebody
you can get yourself into trouble.
I was going home the other day
I saw, a guy looked like he was breaking into a window,
I thought, gee whiz, I don't know if he's really doing that or not or if person who lives there.
I was thinking I need to call the police when I get back home
it was about about four or five blocks from where we live
I thought no, because I wouldn't know if that was really a robber or not because it was in broad daylight.
anymore, the crime happens in daylight,
as it does night,
I watched it on T V, I guess last year sometime.
They'll break in
I hear that, you lock yourself out of your house
you try to get in your house
it will
you give
that half the time it takes you to break in.
a professional could break in, in,
Half that time,
half that time.
I mean that's so scary.
It is.
So scary think you've got yourself all locked in and safe,
somebody could break in,
I have a dog,
that's the one thing that I like.
want a German Shepherd.
I don't want any of those ones that will (( )) up the kids,
I do want a German Shepherd.
my husband will leave every once in a while,
he works on the railroad.
I'm scared here by myself.
that's ano ,
we have a little dog now
he is just as vicious bu ,
And loud.
And loud,
I thought that, we'd have to have a big dog
we doesn't need a big dog.
We got this little bitty dog that,
part Dachshunds part Cocker Spaniel.
very protective,
The Cocker Spaniels are loud .
Very protective,
that's one of the best deterrents for a robber is a noisy neighbor even if the neighbor's got a noisy dog.
That's a deterrent.
Because they know that that dog's going to bark.
That's right.
it's easy to fool a dog too.
throw them meat or
real intense burglar can just get another dog that's in heat.
From what I've he ,
saw it on T V.
wow, gosh.
it was nice talking to you.
it was.
meet up again.
All righty.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
there's one,
I meant living in Texas,
where you at?
I'm in Rome, New York.
In where (( Rome )) , New York?
Rome, New York,
Rome, New York,
let me look at my husband and ask him,
they do .
He's reminding me of where I live,
New York does not
trying to reinstate it
the governor's opposed to it being Democrat that he is,
and Mario Cuomo
the state legislatures are more and more coming to supporting it.
ethically don't like the idea
I should say morally I don't like the idea,
and ethics, socially and ethically I think it's a good idea, in certain crimes.
agree, with that
I don't know if this is cold and too pragmatically
I'm really offended,
by the thought that I have to support,
just the existence of, murder, rapist,
any (( )) ,
on the street,
I know.
that, after they've gone and done horrible things, molested children, and kill,
them whatever, that, society has to pay, (( upwards )) , thirty thousand dollars a year to incarcerate them.
Texas is having a problem right now
the, the, the (( )) cri , I think that's repeat crimes and the repeat offenders is happening down here where the state patrol board is letting people walk that have done, heinous things police officers to, just multiple, to murders of children, just, really bad things
out like three to five years before they're even suppose to be considered,
now, they can't find them
they're finding bodies in di ,
you why they say it's because
you think how everybody that stupid
is the world really that rotten .
don't know,
I know.
it's a hard question,
you look at the United States,
we have the largest murder rate of any developed,
I don't know how (( Americans are about )) handguns
yesterday a lady I work with just told me today that, in the state capitol here in Austin, Texas, they had been, looking at a bill, making it easier to accept the bill handguns
they passed it, which basically means without an F B I check any person here in this state over twenty one can get a gun .
Here in New York it's a lot harder than that,
Is it,
that's good.
almost six months to get, handgun permit, in this state.
that good,
I think that's, like the state of Virginia,
that's great.
that's with,
you have to have, a police investigation,
you have to,
have references,
I know, because a friend of mine wanted to get one and listed me as a reference
I know it,
very easy to get,
there's no restrictions, whatsoever, on hunting rifles and shotguns and things like that,
which don't consider to be the kind of
they're no,
the (( cattiness )) behind,
I don't like guns in general
when I think about, this topic capital punishment when I was in college in a dorm
I think if he'd been around one of my family members probably would have killed him
in Florida, in the state of Washington when they had the Ted Bundy case
how they just exe ,
it hasn't been just
it was in the, I think the second or third quarter of last year, nineteen ninety
some people that said, why are you glad,
you di ,
this is nothing,
I said just maybe because he got a lot of media hype all that
should be more cases like that where
I don't know,
a , the thing with Bundy was though he escaped
So many times.
and did it again
that's just maybe because of the little more, said celebrated that,
he's not the only one,
you know,
see somebody's mini series
you hear about somebody's crime,
there was something on,
this gets back to capital punishment,
the man had stolen, not stolen but kidnapped, some wealthy ex athlete's daughter somewhere in Florida
they changed all the facts that they said it was true
they buried her alive
Peter Strauss had played the lead role
they said, this set person was paroled like six months ago
you're thinking that's nice.
I'm not sure that capital punishment serves as a deterrence
it does serve as a pun , definite,
pun ,
there's and end to,
lasting punish ,
the situation.
in that particular instance,
I know it's on a
that's the problem I have with it,
in Texas they think it's
they think that if they electrocute or slip, or do something, or gas somebody, that they're not going to have the crimes that they do have
we happen to live in Dallas which is extremely crime,
we just moved here,
we've been here before, lived in Minneapolis, Saint Paul, which has an exceedingly low crime rate,
we were transferred back here,
when you're gone from some place six years as we were, you really begin to see, just how problematic just living is,
even suburban, no matter where you are,
you're in,
Rome, New York,
Rome, New York,
it's up state
is that
is that near Albany or Syracuse,
it's, near Syracuse
it's about,
actually live in a Village of Sylvan Beach,
I work in Rome,
type of area is that,
It's more rural,
is that in term,
it use to be
use to lot of heavy industry,
it's kind of,
all the industry has gone south,
now the Air Force is the largest employer in the, area
How would,
how is the situation in there in terms of crime and,
Not too bad,
and things that would,
not too bad.
you still have drug problems and typical,
small city type problems,
I don't know that there's a real,
Not the harsh criminality,
there isn't the harsh crime and all.
that you find in,
Dallas is a
I'm being very sarcastic,
it's just a great,
on some days, it's, I don't know
the good ole boy network here is, very strange, like I said
they believe that, if they kill somebody, tit for tat and,
deed for deed that,
that does something,
yet they want spend the money to build the new jails that,
they really are over,
just not a cop out,
I just, I'm originally from Pennsylvania which I think is basically like New York these days,
have capital punishment there.
may have just reenacted it
I'm from,
from Pennsylvania also, outside,
(( )) ,
of Philadelphia,
I'm from Pittsburgh
we'll forgive each other .
because they use to be very, very conservative when I was growing up
I haven't lived there in twenty,
The west part of the state is
the east part of the state has got all the bleeding hearts and all the welfare cases
There you go .
I don't know
that's a different
I don't know
I think everybody would feel it is same way if they were touched by crime.
I think everyone would,
(( you and I think are )) honest and candid because we could do it this,
I think everybody if they were touched by it would say, A if they had any sense of rage that could be brought out,
I think every human does, I think they'd say, yeah,
do it if somebody in my family or if it happened it me,
if your friends or family that happen to them I think everyone would,
probably pull the trigger themselves or flip the switch themselves and with a smile on their face,
I just,
as they did it.
don't think that, you can rehabilitate,
I just don't,
I did a paper back in college a long time ago for criminal justice class,
I just,
the subject,
I remember we drew things out of a hat
the essence was does the crime fit the punishment
when you see how many repeat offenders there are, fraud cases where they go to jail for five to ten years and, getting their hand,
just slapped, and how it is based on the judge and if the time of day that the court is in session,
all these, intangible things
you're thinking, not want to be a victim
you wouldn't want to be a criminal either
because you wouldn't know what you're getting,
I don't know,
methods of capital punishment I have no opinions on that either
I just ,
I, yeah,
I don't know
I think the old gas chamber seems to be about the most painless
I guess it's a pretty,
pretty rough thing to be, electrocuted.
Is it,
how about the injection,
an injection,
is that suppose to be.
that would be even,
I didn't even,
think about that.
I'm not even sure, in the split among the fifty states,
do you know which way it is the ratio,
it's more than,
more that don't have it,
I think,
isn't that correct.
there's more that don't have it
amazingly it's Massachusetts went back,
and reinstated capital punishment, maybe six or seven years ago,
I don't know if they've used it they've reinstated it
it's on the books.
(( I don't know if ))
I'm not sure if Texas,
they didn't, they were again ,
did they have it,
they were against it,
Texas, as I said, has it
I haven't been back here long enough realize whether or not,
if they've done it in the last,
I guess it depends on what age.
I am in the thirty something,
I know,
I lived through it.
are you old enough to know about the war?
just barely.
I am, twenty nine.
you are old enough.
it was on the fringe.
just, yeah,
Had some friends in it.
It ended, when I was in, college. I turned nineteen in nineteen seventy,
I cannot even remember at this point.
when I turned nineteen it was the year that, the draft was still going on.
If I had been a male or in Israel, I would have been number two.
Really? .
I learned a lesson in gender .
in terms of the war, I do not know.
I do not really know that much about it.
I just know socially the impact it had here and what you hear in the media,
I guess I think it was, not that great that we were in there, in terms of for how long it lasted.
What do you think?
I think it is, basically the same way.
It certainly has affected, U S policy though.
There is,
there is no question it had an overwhelming effect of how we approached thing in, Iraq.
the whole thing that was bad about Vietnam, it was no different from Iraq.
I mean it was, one country picking on a smaller, weaker one.
The devastation,
The only difference was that the government said, okay
if we were going to support this smaller country, then we are going to support it a hundred percent.
we are going to consider ourselves against, in war,
against these people as well.
in full
Which really was not the attitude with Vietnam.
It was sort a president's war
rather than a
it just kind of
country's war.
dragged on.
I do not know how you were historically.
I was a little bit older before I realized just how long it had been going on since
L B J and
I pa ,
seemed to me like it was,
it seemed like it was going on forever,
It really,
in fact, because in terms of when your,
there is at least ten years between us,
in terms of when you were in school, I am sure that it was, the majority of your high school and junior high years.
one of the things I did not like was the weaponry systems that they used.
it just did not seem that, I do not know, technically we knew what we were doing either.
you heard about the things like agent orange, et cetera,
you would think, just, how could the government or the Pentagon, is in charge there been so careless.
Of course now everyone's more, environmentally
intelligent than they were back then.
back then it was not commonly known that saccharin was bad for you and all these other things
that people
and all these other things.
That is true,
that people know about themselves now.
monetarily too, I just do not think we have done enough for the, Vietnamese people as a whole. in South Vietnam, in general, in helping them restore themselves.
huh .
I don't know if it is because there are not any oil fields there .
have that resource or not.
I mean I do not think they do.
I just think it is kind of a shame that, you still hear things about the children that are orphans there
on a whole, I do not know, war is not good.
that one I probably,
my main opinion would be we should not have done it.
that is what I know about the Vietnam War .
Unless you,
you know bit more than I do,
explain it.
I did not, get to live through it.
I know that it did,
felt very strongly.
Most of,
I work for a government contractor.
And, from Vietnam.
I have not talked to any of them were not, glad that they went rather thought that the reason they went was a good one.
most of them are strongly the reason for America to be there was a good one.
They just felt that the way America backed them up at all right.
In terms of the personal.
In term of,
The bitterness is more on a personal
level than on a,
Personal level
the finances, how they started.
air attacks and stuff like that dropped off like crazy.
Because the Congress would not approve,
The money is
I think it started actually in the late fifties. in fifty eight, fifty nine.
it really,
I know, in nineteen sixty three, I was nine years old,
when Kennedy was shot.
I remember, right around then that's when I first started hearing about Vietnam.
then as I got older and studied in school, I realized it was even going on before that.
you think to yourself, my goodness, Eisenhower .
That sounds ancient,
a lot of the Vietnam vets that are my age in their later thirties, guys that I know, that, they are just kind of bitter,
I hate to quo , that movie BORN ON THE FOURTH OF JULY,
it is that kind of idea.
they just do not feel that socially they were given,
a friend of mine called it the yellow ribbon syndrome.
They were not given the,
the ticker tape parade and all that.
I won't keep you any more.
That is probably much as we both know .
thanks for talking to me.
were you calling from Texas?
is that where you are at?
I am in Falls Church, Virginia.
I know where that is.
That is beautiful where you are at.
D C.
D C,
Are you a native of there?
pretty much,
Dallas, it is, ninety two degrees here today,
at least the humidity is, below forty percent, which makes it kind of Phoenix.
It is about the same weather here.
cooler, like eighty nine.
basically the same thing.
you are not missing too much then .
take it easy.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
do you want to give a start on it?
I think for me,
from Alabama.
South Alabama,
I grew up in the midst of civil rights movement.
in a pretty liberal family that area at the time.
I was very much a part of was going on there.
my parents are pretty active
it was very scary
now we've seen, black people have a lot more civil rights in that area and I guess all over than they did, twenty years ago.
There's still a lot accomplished,
for me, when I think about social change, that's what I first think of
I can remember, separate public restrooms and separate water fountains and
sitting in the back of the bus and everything.
You can relate to that.
Now see, have any of that because, we live in the country
in Clarion County
we really didn't have things like that going on
that we, ran into.
we kind of,
I guess when I think of social changes, I more of, , visiting habits of families
and such.
that's true.
That's a good one right there.
that there's less visiting done, I think, on a whole than there used to be.
Used to be that you took the family whether the kids wanted to go or not,
you went visiting .
today, people, they do visit,
it's not quite the same as, what it was, say, twenty years ago, thirty years ago.
I grew up the country, too, basically, in a rural area
and with lots of family.
we were always at family in different p ,
family members' homes.
even now, they don't even do that.
they're so spread out,
I think has a lot to do with it.
they're so busy.
personal schedules are so busy.
think with more women working
in our family, twenty years ago, not that many of the women worked.
That's right,
now, almost all the women work.
The majority,
that means, the social visiting and all was, I think, probably instigated by women
when you work
at that time.
don't really care to go out and visit as much.
That's right.
my mother does not work
herself pretty alone a lot
because most of her friends are working women.
even just social visits, people don't do that anymore.
You're right.
they don't do as much.
people don't feel comfortable just to drop in on people
There's a real,
You have to make arrangements or have
you don't want to,
an invitation or,
You want to make sure it's okay
I guess we don't not to people's privacy or whatever.
that could be part of it.
I don't know for sure what it is.
I know our children mostly are scattered out at a distance, so we really don't have that even.
We don't,
fifteen grandchildren in my family, only two of us don't live within fifty miles.
live within ten
that's pretty good.
it's a rural family
most people didn't go away.
I'm just one of the two
out of fifteen
that don't live same state.
apparently there must be work available, for those
that are,
There is in that area.
around here, there's really nothing for the young people,
There's minimum wage jobs,
to make a good living, there really, around here, there just isn't too much.
I guess, that would greatly affect social
Probably the job market economy
has always affected, social change.
there's the main things I can think of.
I really tried to think of some other things
I couldn't really,
I think just, also, the women's movement, too, has affected a lot of social change.
Some good
and some bad .
People marry later.
basically, I think,
where I'm from Alabama that's not necessarily true
because people do still get married right out of high school.
out here in Texas where I am now, that's very unusual.
They'd rather get their life started first before,
Most people go to college or at least get a job
even, a lot of people seem to be engaged for a long time before they get married
because they do want to be financially set up.
even to get school finished, I think,
a lot of times it's better if they do finish their schooling before they settle in.
a marriage takes a lot of effort and concentration
if you're busy with school really difficult for a family.
probably, more women being the work force also greatly, greatly affects social change.
Because it affects child care
I know daughter that lives in Pittsburgh, she has two little boys
been in day care since,
one's four
one's one
they've done well .
I wouldn't want to do it that way,
she's quite happy
the children seem quite adjusted.
they're saying right now, are seeing the effects of day care on
the generation that's just now coming into
That's right,
the work force and in their twenties.
They are the first generation that basically grew up with day care.
That's right,
it remained to be seen exactly does.
I'm going to baby sit my granddaughter.
She's just eight weeks old,
this will be new for me .
the others I'm too far away to help them out at all.
Where do they live?
I have a son and daughter that live in Pittsburgh. One in Maryland and one in Connecticut.
A son in Connecticut.
they're not too far, though.
Connecticut takes eight hours to drive home
it's too far to, really go too often.
Pittsburgh's not quite so bad.
It's just a couple hours.
Maryland, maybe five hour drive.
I live like fourteen hours from home.
That's worse yet.
In fact I'm,
I'm driving tomor , I'm, I'm driving home tomorrow,
are you really?
To go be there for the Fourth of July.
Do you, stay overnight on the way,
I can drive it all.
It's just me,
You're young.
I can make it.
How old are you?
I'm thirty five.
you're young enough yet to ,
Although it is pretty,
I don't know,
I don't enjoy it that much.
It's pretty much get there
It's work to get there.
It's just not that pleasant.
Even with other people, I basically just don't like to drive that far.
my son,
he rebuilt a Aranca Chief, airplane,
they flew down last weekend.
They came down in it.
it still took a long time because airplane.
they enjoyed in thoroughly.
When you say you're in the second phase of this project, what is the second phase of it?
I'm not sure,
you have to change phones.
You have to call from
Wondering how you keep up on the news.
Primarily with our local newspaper and T V.
I listen to the radio but like I did when I was working.
I am recently retired
to that means I have a lot of time to watch the news on T V.
How do you gain your news?
WASHINGTON POST
that is a pretty big newspaper
I think that's almost exclusive my (( first of the )) news.
Though I have the radio on when I go to work, I don't think the news usually hits,
I'm not going right on the hour.
I see.
You know.
one of the handicaps with both T V radio.
If you're not available on the hour or half hour, then you lose out on an awful lot.
what is your newspaper?
That is the WASHINGTON POST
is that correct?
I have read that when we were in that area,
it is a splendid newspaper.
what more do we need to discuss ,
That seems like a very short one.
I think that, resolved the issue
that's what we were asked to do.
I can discuss a lot of the news that we have,
I feel that that's not part of our
thank you for calling.
thanks for discussing it.
All right.
Bye bye.
Good bye.
Carolyn, main things I'd to know is, how do you feel about environment of a nursing home before you would send someone there to live and so forth.
What do you think would be required, and so forth?
I'll tell you,
watched what went on, with the TWENTY TWENTY show, talked about nursing homes,
they specifically talked about some in the area where I am, here in Texas,
you knew of the homes,
You knew of the homes themselves?
I'm not familiar with those homes per se
they were in the area where I live
it was really revealing to see some of things that go on, I guess, in some of these homes,
I would definitely, want to really check things out and, go,
I guess that the big thing would be once you got someone in a home like that, make sure that you went daily,
and made sure that they were cared for,
from your point of view, how would you feel about actually sending someone means something to you to one of those homes.
I realize that you indicated you wanted to check out as much as you can about it
of course, that makes sense,
how do you think they would feel, I should say, about moving from where they have lived most of their life into a whole home situation?
I have that kind of situation, because my mother lives with me,
eighty seven
from the time that we were tiny, she said, I want you to promise that you'll never put me in a rest home.
I know how she feels about it.
if I,
if I ever had to put her there, I think, it would be probably when I just could not handle it any more, if I
she got to the point where she was totally bedridden, I just didn't have the skills or the strength to lift her or whatever it needed,
I think that would be the,
how do you find that personal relationship is with her, know that you're both together all the time and you are having to do a lot more for her than normal?
cause any problems between the two of you?
I wouldn't say any more than usual.
Is she,
I think it's very hard for her, to be waited upon, so to speak,
I think it's hard for her to have that role of not being able to do as much as she used to.
It's hard to accept the fact that you're unable to pursue life, at the level that you did before,
isn't it?
I think that's very true.
on the other hand, it takes on almost switch of a mother child relationship.
It is different.
I had that almost similar situation.
My mother lives in an apartment with my sister
I, except for the three or four months this summer,
that's the only time I ever spent with my mother,
of course, since I see her only once or twice a year, I was just thrilled
to have her here with me,
I spent every minute I could to be with her and, cooking foods for her, just to make life as though she were on vacation.
somehow another, doesn't work between my mom and my sister,
find are,
in speaking they,
I don't know,
my mother feels uncomfortable around my sister,
my sister's uncomfortable because her mother's there
I guess it's just because they're there all the time.
pressure on both of them from that point of view.
kind of bad news.
by the same token, my wife's mother is now moved into a nursing home,
after all she has been a farmer's wife for sixty years
now all of a sudden she's had to move off of her farm, into another home where the environment is totally different.
She's relatively happy,
she doesn't like the food.
when she complains about the food
then they kind of get angry with her.
that's another one of those things you have to solve.
that's got to be a big adjustment for someone that's, as you say, lived on a farm for sixty years,
go to something like that.
after all, life is so totally different
in those early days, the food, they had to make it from scratch, so to speak.
you raised your own chickens,
you killed your own hogs, I suppose,
they had to store the meat in,
I don't want to say barns,
they had regular little places would hang it,
to cure it and so forth.
now, all of a sudden, it, comes in differently,
it tastes differently.
That's right.
major preferences as far as television?
T V,
trying to think.
I was trying to think of some while they were calling you.
I like Friday,
what is it,
is it Friday or Saturday night shows .
I think it's Friday night.
with the two little girls in it, what's it called.
Or three little girls.
two twins play the, the twins play the youngest girl.
I really like that.
What's it called?
I don't know,
all I can think of is the name of ALL IN THE FAMILY
that's not it.
FULL HOUSE.
there you go.
I really like that show.
that is good.
we have cable.
I really like watching the old NICK AT NITE shows,
Where you get to watch DRAGNET and MISTER ED
can watch those all night sometimes if,
DONNA REED .
lately I've been getting into talk shows
just, controversy
which one does, which ones do you like?
Just really whatever.
Just as long,
it depends on the subject
it's more interesting.
Some of them get pretty boring
there's that guy,
I think it's out of Dallas,
his name is,
I wish I could remember his name.
Is he one of the talk show guys?
Maury Povich?
he's black
has a bald head
his first name starts with an M.
let's see.
it's like,
his first name's like or Marlin,
I can't remember his name.
he always has really strange shows like, male strippers or female strippers or just
really sensationalistic, like what Geraldo used to be.
see, like those,
I like
I don't either.
more controversial subjects, I think.
yeah .
Do you watch cartoons a lot?
don't watch T V that much, anymore.
It seems like,
I'm going to school right now
where do you go to school?
B Y U.
I'm working, too,
everything keeps me pretty busy.
I'm going to U T D here in Dallas.
My dad taught there
for a while,
What did he teach?
speech pathology.
that's what I'm majoring in.
I'm a graduate student in speech.
No way.
How long have you been there?
this is my first semester.
so you wouldn't know him.
Who, who, who, what, when did he teach?
he taught about a year ago.
He used to work at, University of Texas at D ,
I can't remember what it's even called now,
he worked there for like fifteen years and then part time U T D at night.
they stopped funding the program there.
now he's at Texas Women's University.
is he teaching speech pathology there?
what's his name?
Allen Bird.
B I R D?
he published a paper, couple of years ago, I think, one that I read.
Does he publish
some different programs out,
I don't know what they're called,
he has little with them and
little cards and stuff.
I don't know that,
he has a test, he has a testing, yeah,
a testing battery.
He uses real,
that's interesting.
what are you studying?
studying nursing
I'm thinking about changing right now .
don't know,
it's really tough to get into the program down here
I'll probably come and go to T W U.
I'm living in the T W U dorm across from Collier,
My dad used to teach at Collier, too.
where the speech program is.
I'm living in that dorm
there, all those nursing majors.
tell you what,
that's a tough, field, though.
Nursing is.
have a lot of respect for those people.
they've spent a lot of hours studying .
you're at Baylor?
I'm at B Y U, in Utah .
Brigham Young.
I see,
all right.
I get to come home the nineteenth
I'm so excited .
I'm so homesick.
Do you like S ,
it's in Salt Lake City, right?
It's in Provo
is it?
like it out here.
Do you?
I've been away too long.
I'm from Colorado,
been away from there too long .
all set.
Good morning .
Good morning.
Let's see,
I play a couple of instruments.
I try to.
What do you play?
clarinet is my primary instrument,
I also play a little bit of saxophone, flute and piano
when I get the opportunity, which isn't very often.
that's too bad .
How about yourself?
I play, the violin
and play trumpet
I run a municipal band
I sometimes conduct.
I'm pretty busy too.
I play in three different symphony orchestras.
We have a
That's great.
nice big one here in State College, called the (( Nitny )) Valley
I play in the Altoona Symphony,
was about forty five miles away
I play in a slightly smaller one called the Lockhaven
Symphony and Community Orchestra.
are you a professional musician?
I'm, just retiring from Penn State University
only have been.
I spend about half my time playing music or preparing for it somewhere.
I've been working at, Penn State
and using up all my nighttimes,
and weekends
going to these orchestra rehearsals concerts and so forth.
I understand,
I'm in one community band here,
that's just,
we rehearse once a week.
We generally have a concert every other week
You have one that often.
Yeah .
That's amazing because
That's a lot.
I have it set up here that we have at least six to seven rehearsals per concert.
we sure don't.
one thing is, we have a
every single Sunday night we play at the library to have a little
stage set up
we do that every Sunday night
You are busy.
during the summer,
I don't know. We just have an awful lot of engagements,
we're just having to turn a lot of people down, because, we don't want to do things like have a concert back to back or even two days in a row.
Where do you get all this music,
must back up and play some of the music twice.
Oh yes,
we really do.
you get your little Sousa book
you just flip through it, and that sort of thing.
So don't play pretty well a full concert band music most of the time then.
It really depends on who shows up.
it's always a mystery,
it actually doesn't matter who shows up,
it matters what instruments they brought,
so many
people switch instruments so often.
in the winter we do more concert stuff
How many people in your band?
I think there's about seventy.
there's a lot.
Holy mackerel,
on any given night there's not seventy
it alternates quite a lot.
that is a huge organization,
that's great.
it really is.
Because about the best I can normally hope for is about fifty
the band I have here.
that fills a stage and keeps us busy,
a lot of them are from, faculty at Penn State here.
they want to play things that, push them to do.
that's why we have to work real hard when we get a concert together.
We have about four concerts per year indoors
and two or three that we play outside.
the last one we did was in a large, mall close here,
we played Christmas about an hour out in this mall.
that worked out very nicely.
that's fun.
let's see.
there's another band around here.
Someone at work is trying to get me to join that one, because they need clarinet players
their concert schedule isn't as heavy,
they have more in the summer,
I think they have ten in the summer, week after the other.
I think they're Monday nights
they don't have rehearsals during that time period.
Are you just saying sight read every concert?
it's not really sight reading when you've done it, again and again and again,
some people are,
some of them are.
does this happen, Laurie,
is this in Dallas?
they're in the suburbs of Dallas, in Richardson and Plano.
We're real close to Dallas.
I declare.
That's amazing.
social group than anything else,
people always bring refreshments for after rehearsal and
hang around for an hour or so
That's probably why we get so many people.
Do any of in your group get paid for any of this?
the conductor gets paid a little bit,
we do get some money from the city
because we do play at a lot of city events.
I think he's the only one that gets paid.
you do have to buy your music.
sponsors you basically, the city?
The city,
my band is sponsored through what they call Parks and Recreation.
it's a similar thing.
I can't remember what they call it,
but the same type of thing.
we do get an awful lot of music,
we can borrow music from any of the area colleges
if group just isn't going to play any more, they'll just give us their music, and that type of thing.
we do an awful lot of,
we don't charge for any of our performances,
we get a lot of donations.
work the same way .
Yeah .
I'll be darned.
It's amazing.
W ,
what do you think?
providing universal health care insurance for the whole country is a pretty big task
don't approve of it for two reasons.
Number one is that I think that, the federal government has a problem with the deficit right now,
if they were to administer this, they would, get us more and more into debt, further than we can ever get out ourselves.
Number two I think that the quality of health care would go down because the competition be dried up
really no one answer to a big mess.
I've seen what it has done in other countries
we should head in that direction.
Although that we have problems right now
I do agree that they exist
health care insurance everyone is skyrocketing
it's become to a point where basically no one can afford it anymore.
How do you feel about the whole ordeal?
I agree that it's a big task,
the U S should move toward some kind of national health care plan. At least as a long term kind of goal.
possibly, starting with more regulation of health insurance and that sort of thing,
I think that ultimately it would be a good idea to,
and not have a completely socialized,
medical system
in the country, maybe something about halfway between that and what we have now.
seems that, health insurance costs are sky rocketing, as fast as the national deficit
so that,
that's a
What you're think ,
that's a vicious cycle, of course.
what you're
saying though, is instead of having the national administer, giving health insurance to every man, woman and child the whole company, you see more of them as regulating the high costs, that people are forced to pay for it right now.
Is that
is that correct,
do you think that,
wouldn't exclude the possibility of the government actually administrating it ultimately.
I don't think that that would necessarily be such a bad idea.
, ,
costs as they are right now, do you think that the government,
what that would require is for us to pay, more taxes
the people that can afford taxes, the middle income and the upper income will be paying more pay for health insurance for everyone, whereas right now
public themselves get health insurance
they provide their own health insurance.
middle and upper classes are paying more than their share for the health care of the whole country because they're the only people that can afford health insurance
that the other people have no health insurance
they'll get medical care anyway at least in emergencies
E ,
somebody winds up paying for that
basically the people paying for it are the people who are buying health insurance
I don't see would get any worse.
That way it might get better.
You think it might huh?
kind of disagree .
The reason being is, we have,
I don't know,
I guess it's fear of the national government and also because the bureaucratic
rules that it would take to administer it
health insurance companies right now pretty much regulate and are pretty picky don't allow cases where they might throw them out of business, whereas the federal government if they took over everything, they wouldn't care because they'll never go out of business.
People would still have to pay taxes,
the money would have to come from somewhere
so you'd s ,
feel that the cost would increase dramatically also.
in the same sense care and attitude of the doctors and the professionals within the medical, field diminish.
I think,
Okay .
First off,
speaking of air pollution I'm coughing (( )) .
I'm not sure what contributes to air pollution exactly.
I find it hard to believe that a lot of the hair sprays and things that we use cause the air pollution.
It doesn't seem like,
I guess when you think of it everybody has some sort of aerosol in their home
it's kind of dangerous.
that's true.
I don't know.
to Salt Lake
there's mountains, all around.
sometimes I think tend to hold a little bit of it in,
fairly clean,
I think it's a fairly clean city compared to some,
you know how quite a,
you think the mountains barrier?
(( )) .
I think sometimes it seems to be
That's an interesting thought.
I don't know.
I know there's a lot of plants here,
when I drive down
freeway, there's a lot of plants that they're burning things
Here in Texas I know place here is relatively flat,
I would think that that would probably contribute to us not having that big of smog problem or
something like that.
have a real fog problem.
The last few years just December and January really is foggy seems to just,
it's kind of like just stays for a month
quite foggy.
what else.
I gue ,
I know
I gue ,
cars .
I guess I've never really, thought about the fact, in California have a lot of smog problems.
it's real hilly there.
that is probably something that plays a big factor.
I think probably just, a lot of factories, they have the smoke stacks, I guess you call them
(( )) and different things like that.
what I see burning a lot.
I'm not exactly sure what they're burning.
I know, there are some oil companies,
I'm sure that that contributes a lot
just the burning of the che ,
Aren't they supposed to be coming out with some sort of, special gas or something that doesn't emit certain chemicals or something?
I don't know.
heard that.
I know,
I don't know how your emissions test is on your cars or anything,
differ from state to state.
that's been a new thing in the last
few years,
I guess some cars are a lot worse than others.
I think those,
what are they,
I know,
a Rabbit's one, diesel
the diesel.
the diesel cars.
they seem to put out quite a bit .
I know a lot of people with diesels
(( )) truck,
working for T I?
I don't.
work in Waco at a T V station.
My mother works at T I.
That's why,
that's how you got involved.
You work at T I?
my husband's sister lives in Dallas
they kind of got involved that way.
That's interesting.
What else causes air pollution?
Noise causes air pollution (( )) .
I've got,
speaking of noise, you can probably hear my little.
that's why I thought of it.
he is quite noisy.
I don't know.
I know that,
don't dumps, where you dump all your
in the,
I'm sure that does.
I know they're always churning that up
We just.
think they burn a lot there, too.
We just had a big, thing here in Waco.
They're needing to open a new landfill, or to expand onto the old landfill.
really been a big fight because a lot of the people that live by the landfill don't want it expanded, because they're thinking that they're water is going to be contaminated somehow.
I don't think like that.
when we've taken things to the dump, just the dump, that is, closest to us,
some houses around there,
I know that on windy days,
they're always moving trash over to different spots,
they've got those big bulldozers,
you can see the dust
I'm sure that their homes are really quite
one of the big concerns is school right across the highway from the landfill.
is there.
the parents were really, really upset.
Worried about their
their kids getting,
been fighting over it for the last year,
they just now approved it.
they're going to try an appeal or something.
We could talk about my favorite subject .
Cooking and food,
Food .
What do you like to cook?
I don't cook a lot
I have just started baking,
I am kind of interested in cakes and, muffins and stuff like that,
I can't seem to get them exactly right.
I am just trying to perfect some things.
I tried to make an applesauce cake. Which I will never ever try to make again.
It was horrible .
I don't know if the cake was horrible or if I made it horrible.
probably not.
I, have, a bread recipe that is real easy that everyone always really does like.
That, doesn't require kneading the dough.
Hey .
It is,
what is funny is that you use, bran, all bran
it looks like it is a wheat bread.
it is actually all bran flour
it is just regular
the type that, yeast that sort of thing
you let it rise
you can let it rise in the refrigerator and then punch it down, and then, make your rolls.
They really are good
they are so easy to do.
That is
seems like every time that we have a dinner party, or that we are going some place where everybody is suppose to bring something and they have had my rolls before.
They request it.
They always ask me to, bring those rolls .
I have not gotten any requests yet.
Last year, I had a Christmas party, at, my office,
I, made the tuna fish sandwiches.
knows how to make tuna fish,
I thought that would be easy for me to make
I can not go wrong with that,
I made it
I used celery seed in my,
Do you use celery seed in your tuna fish?
I haven't.
I just thought it was so strange,
that that was what celery seed was for.
Was for tuna fish.
how funny.
everyone really, really loved the tuna fish
they just couldn't get over the fact that I used celery in it
it just surprised me.
Celery and onion and,
see I have used celery before.
I never used the celery seed in it.
what else do you put in it besides the celery seed.
Just really fine onions and green pepper and the celery seed
I use Miracle Whip salad dressing instead of the actual mayonnaise
because I really don't like the Helman's Mayonnaise.
if you use salad dressing with I guess a tart taste.
Then it comes out real good.
ever found out that nobody else used celery seed.
I feel so silly
See, I have never put bell pepper in tuna fish either.
Isn't that funny?
I was brought up with tuna fish, where you put in, chopped hard boiled eggs which is
now is a no, no with cholesterol and,
chopped up dill pickles.
And that sort of thing.
The standard old tuna fish.
I would put that too.
I just did not have those things.
I don't think I had eggs that night or something,
I would have put eggs.
I would have put eggs in there also.
isn't that interesting?
You, you use bell pepper and onion and
Celery seed.
celery seed.
I will have to try that.
Do you use a regular mayonnaise or,
Sometimes I do
sometimes I use the Miracle Whip.
The Miracle Whip.
It depends on what I have.
sometimes, if I am using, regular mayonnaise, to spice it up a little bit
I will use a little bit of mustard with it.
I do that also.
Just put a little zing in it.
But not a bunch.
But enough to, make it have a little bit more flavor.
(( )) I love barbecue.
Anything barbecued I will eat.
I like, to barbecue baby back ribs.
they are so easy to do if you, have a good barbecue sauce
you, just cook them very, very slowly in the oven.
it is not hard to cook, like some meals are.
messy to eat.
That is the disadvantage.
I make lasagna from scratch
people really like my lasagna
I like to make that too.
I make that once in a while.
sometimes, I am requested to make that.
that is not too hard to do because you can do it in advanced and just bake it.
It is not really, once you have all the ingredients
it is just the layering really.
And not breaking pasta.
That is the hardest part probably.
I have a wonderful recipe for strawberry pie.
It just takes forever
it is, when the strawberries are nice, and big and fresh and yummy.
Do you make cheesecake?
I do.
like a normal pie crust.
then you use this sort of,
it is a cream cheese, layering,
you, it out a little bit.
or make it a little fluffier
you the whole pie crust with that
it is sort of like in a way. using cheese
it is not a real cheese cake
then you,
just put the strawberries,
I was watching the soap opera awards.
Oh .
it is really making me want to exercise
every single woman in the audience is, about ten pounds.
Oh .
I started
exercising Spring, when I, joined the President's Health Club.
I was really motivated and going,
I went, for a little while,
I went pretty regular,
it is hard to go regularly for a long time.
where I live in Waco, they do not have anywhere here that is affiliated with President's
now I do not have a club
any motivation to just go out and jog aimlessly or something like that,
I am not exercising
I wish I could.
I wish I did have the motivation to get out and do that,
I just do not like just running with no where to go .
I just cannot do that.
I understand that.
I have been trying to get myself motivated.
I had up regularly for awhile with a neighbor.
she had injured her back and needed a walking partner
I thought that would be the time to get going.
we walked pretty steadily for about three weeks
then she had to get back to work was traveling to New York
she is not around.
I just don't like walking by myself at night or in the dark of the morning
I don't seem to find time in the day time.
of course, it is motivation that is keeping me from really looking for that opportunity.
I think a lot of the times, if you have someone to, work out with, or walk with, or something, it does give you that motivation.
pretty much do it privately if you had your own private, sort of contest.
where you would try and see if you could lose more weight than your friend or something like that.
that would keep you going.
more than weight,
of course, I could certainly
from ten to twenty pounds
I think more than that,
I also notice I just feel better when I exercise.
that is something that I am motivated about now because I do need to get myself feeling better
just in better shape.
all the same it is connected to my attitude,
I am not feeling as perky and good.
I am also,
it is hard to get my attitude get myself up there.
That is very true.
It seems like you walk quicker.
You just,
perky is a good word for it
when you exercise.
I understand that walking is suppose to be best exercise.
Better than running.
Things like that
works everything
you have
it gets your breathing up
less chance
it doesn't
of hurting yourself.
it doesn't hurt you.
I understand running hurt your shins or knees or something like that.
Last time I tried running with my daughter cause she is supposed to be jogging in P E
it felt good,
then I had pulled a muscle in my knee.
I hyper extended it or something,
I was suffering for about three weeks later.
I have never had that problem before
I guess that age just starts to catch up to me .
oh .
It is showing up in the weirdest places.
I guess favorite exercise, gym, is the bikes.
is it?
To go,
there are these stationery bikes that you just ride
if you watch television, or if you listen to a walkman, okay.
that is sort of weird, because are not going anywhere
I use to play racquetball
I really liked that, because, to me it had a point.
there were points make
there was a point to it,
running and jogging and just not going anywhere is just,
I don't like that,
I just can't understand that.
So, I don't do,
I have got a dog now
of course, she needs walking
that is a little less or boring to be walking at least with her.
I can put on the earphones to have something to listen to
I know a lot of people just to be safe,
you were talking about, walking at night and in the morning
or early in the morning.
you see a lot of, mostly older people though walk in the malls.
early in the mornings and things like that.
I have never tried that.
I don't know.
I have never even thought about it really.
That is kind of an idea.
have, over here in Plano, a little recreation center that has got, a walking track,
is also for security as well as the convenience of doing it any time of the year.
I find it very tedious because I am watching the clock constantly,
there is just nothing else to look at
I actually get more tired doing that, than
I could walk for three or four miles out in the neighborhood here and feel real good.
There I could barely make a couple of miles .
that is a little less,
what kind of music do you like?
seeing as how I'm a musician , I like all kinds of music.
All very very kinds.
Me too.
I mostly like classical and jazz.
I like everything from hard core country to Wagner, and Mahler
I like new age stuff.
basically have a wide range of musical likes.
are you a musician at all?
Yeah .
I play the trumpet.
Do you ?
Mostly the trumpet music baroque and, ,
Baroque and romantic.
things written for Doc Severenson and, a few other people.
they are just,
as far as solos and concertos are concerned,
the rest of them are just parts .
I love baroque music,
it is one of my favorite periods.
In fact sing with a Texas baroque ensemble.
huh .
Who are the trumpet players?
we used to have, Ralph Dutchen.
now he is in Massachusetts.
He has come back a couple of times.
Then there is a trumpet player at North Texas, the main teacher.
Leonard (( )) .
Yeah .
he has played.
the two of them have played natural trumpets .
occasionally, when she can't get those people, we use just E flat trumpets, with valves
Glen Bell plays.
Rick, Bogarts played
I like trumpet and organ together.
It is a nice combination.
Richard Jung Julio recorded an album at the same time as (( )) ,
didn't he?
I think he did.
With Paul.
Yeah .
He is wonderful.
Both of them are.
huh .
do you like romantic music?
mostly the rest of good trumpet marks are romantic music, Mahler and Ruckner and Strauss .
huh .
Do you like opera?
it more and more now.
Getting use to it .
(( )) .
They are Mozart.
I mean there is not any kind of trumpet parts,
melodies more
and, libretto.
You don't like Puccini?
I like Rossini better than Puccini.
I like more comic licks.
Are you going to go see the Elixir of Love?
Do you ever go to the Dallas Opera?
I have never been to a Dallas Opera
only the Fort Worth Opera .
my trumpet teacher used to play in the Fort Worth Opera.
Who was your trumpet teacher?
John Nelson.
I know him,
I kind of know him.
Is he still around here?
he plays in the Fort Worth Symphony and Fort Worth mostly.
seen him playing anywhere lately,
maybe it is cause he is playing in Fort Worth .
I am basically a Church musician.
I do a Church in Plano.
we do all kinds of music at my Church
we hire lots of instrumentalists off and on for, different things.
I am always making music of one kind or another.
Which Church is it?
The Christ United Methodist Church in Plano .
It seems like a lot of Churches are hiring more musicians now than they use to.
Most Churches have the,
there are some of the few organizations that have the funds to, do big big works .
an orchestra at least twice a year and then different instrumentalists off and on through out the year.
In fact, we have,
do you know John Qumenato?
He plays at our Church a lot.
In fact he is playing this Sunday at our Church.
he plays pretty regularly.
He is still teaching at Brookhaven,
isn't he?
I think so.
He teaches a lot in Plano at high schools
I think he teaches at Brookhaven.
I heard Glen Bell taught at Plano as well.
Glen teaches here too.
they have cornered the market on trumpet.
Why don't you tell me about your choir.
we, are a group of, musicians that just kind of have, formed out of a desire to sing
many of the people in the group are
Lot of them are former music teachers or currently teaching.
others have,
there's one gal that's in the, Plano Community Orchestra.
just, different backgrounds.
It's been really kind of interesting.
I play the piano
I have a four year old has started to play the piano.
He does that, musically, listens
he can play, which is kind of interesting.
I think it's because he's always heard music in our home he was a baby.
my husband and my other son, who's eleven just got through singing in a musical here, the community at Music Man.
they did?
How did,
lots of fun.
How did they get involved in that?
basically they read in the newspaper that there were open auditions.
It was the Plano Repertory Theatre.
they went and tried out
my husband played Harold Hill from the Music Man
my son played one of the children in a band.
how fun.
it was really fun,
my son plays the clarinet in his band at school,
my daughter takes piano lessons, too.
we just really like music.
I especially like it as an outlet when the T V goes off,
get the T V off and just have some nice quiet music.
that's nice.
You say have your four year old taking lessons already?
who do you have her, or him, take it from?
I have him take from a friend of mine who teaches Suzuki.
Which is an auditory type learning experience.
You listen to the music and then learn to play it the intervals and things like that.
I teach, like what is traditionally taught,
you look at the note on the page
you play what's on the piano,
he can't learn like that.
He's a delayed child.
two and a half in his real understanding of things.
when my friend played something on the piano and he played it, with his right hand,
we went, wow
we better have him
that was really fun.
My husband and I love to go to the musicals downtown, though.
Pardon me?
my husband and I love to go to the musicals when they come into town
into Dallas.
I have an eight and a half year old daughter who's taking piano lessons and started out at the age of just turning five
to enjoy it so much
now daughter trying to imitate her older sister and wanting to play
she actually does some very nice chording just naturally.
She just,
I think that's great.
I wasn't sure when to start her.
I didn't want to push her too early, either, but, kind of had a mixed feelings about that scene.
That's really hard I think, especially if you start them
they get pretty good
they get close, ten, eleven or something,
they go, I don't want to do this anymore
you're like
huh .
God, I really want you to do it.
sometimes it's hard know exactly when,
I don't know,
if she acts like she wants to or says she wants to maybe you could have her take some for a while and see how she likes it.
I think she'd like to,
I just don't know if it's really,
knowing from what my daughter has gone through, learned a lot
of course, it was something she had to keep relearning if she ever got away from it.
It was something easily forgotten.
I don't know if she's any farther ahead than those kids who started when they were eight
should I say seven.
she's not a gifted pianist in the sense that she's going to excel just naturally.
She does have to really work at it,
That's like me.
I'm kind of, just playing with it,
at this point we're going to kind of wait, I think just more for the financial reasons of it anyway
it can get expensive
that's for sure.
very generous letting us have my children, do the Suzuki method
without paying a lot out.
that's good.
it's been good for our family.
as a piano teacher, do you have any feelings for kids who come from a Suzuki method,
have you had any former Suzuki students?
I don't have any Suzuki students.
I was wondering how,
Something happening to me at Christmas time verified to me that I will al ,
I'm ready .
Why don't you go ahead and start off .
I don't have an elderly person that I could send to nursing home or anything.
parents are dead,
I did have a friend that was in a convalescent home, like a nursing home
I there very often to visit her and, made me feel really sad.
If I did have a mother living, I don't think I could do that.
I think they would be better off being at home with their family,
I agree, although, we're in that situation right now.
We have eighty seven year old mother in law living with me right now
because of her circumstances she can no longer live independently.
even moving from her house to our house
has been tremendously unsettling for her
we have several young children
they about drive her crazy.
I can believe that.
most elderly people can't take having a lot of noise and kids running around and things like that.
In a situation like that maybe it would be better.
struggled a lot with it because, most of the nursing homes I've been in are very depressing to me.
she's still alert enough that I think she would really know that we were putting her there
I think she would really resent it,
I think that would make it very hard.
on the other hand, I see my wife with,
I guess our youngest one now is five
and her trying to struggle because her mother really cannot take care of herself.
She needs to be
bathed and dressed and a lot of those kinds of
see, that's really a sad situation.
And so the drain on the family.
when the kids have kids come, she's always saying, why do they have to be here,
why can't they send them home,
it's too noisy
she'll say that to the kids' friends.
it's a hard situation, either way, I think.
in a case like that, you more or less think it would be better if she were in a nursing home because you have your family growing up where,
I think that's one of the things we're really wrestling with.
When does it become detrimental to our family to the point that you have to consider that
as opposed to considering her current circumstances
the cost of these nursing homes are so,
a lot of people can't afford that.
you really have no choice that way not rich
I know this lady was a friend of mine,
her husband was still alive at the time when she was in there,
it was costing him a small fortune to keep her in there.
I think we need to develop some alternatives like adult day care
that's more readily available,
I think if we could send her someplace for the day
then bring her back home at night.
and she could be around some elderly people and have some activities would be of more interest to her
and then in the evening have her return and be with the family.
just come home for dinner
usually they want to go to bed fairly early anyhow.
that would probably be nice if we could ever get something like that
there's not many of those available right now
they're very hard to get them into
we tried sending her to a senior citizen center.
they're really not prepared to cope with her because she's somewhat senile.
a lot of the activities that they're engaged in, she can't participate in.
I think it's an issue that,
with the graying of America, we're really going to have to, country figure out how we're going to deal with this.
it is a difficult situation
you hate seeing them just, sort of send off and not well cared for.
if they don't know anybody and they don't know what's going on around them and everything like that, I can see, maybe a nursing home would be better,
if have their wits about them and everything, it's kind of hard .
I think it depends on their physical ability, too,
if they could be up and doing some things
it might be better than when they're just sort of needing almost constant supervision and care.
my mother always said she hopes she never had to be like that
luckily, she lived by herself
one day she had a heart attack
she was gone,
she never did have to go into a nursing home or anything like that,
there's, so many of us kids, seven of us that, wouldn't have probably allowed that to happen anyhow.
she could have taken turns living with each one of us, for a period of time because we all don't live in the same city anyhow, the same state
Do you live at all close to each other?
have a couple more that live out here in California,
then I have a broth ,
why don't you go ahead first.
short term, it works out pretty well because we have just enough to cover expenses with a little left over
budgeting in the short term isn't too much of an issue because there's not that much,
extra to go around.
long term is something we're starting to think about because our older child will be ready for college in about, A gee,
she's eight now
so I guess about ten years.
Good heavens.
starting to think about long term considerations. College and retirement.
with not a whole lot of discretionary money, it's kind of hard to figure out how to do it.
How about you?
That's kind of,
to what we're doing is budgeting,
Month to month is, kind of taking into consideration what the bills are and what's extra
that's kind of how we do it, from month to month depending on what insurance is due or whatever.
long term, that's a little bit easier for us because, with our jobs we can take out extra money towards savings, Four Oh One K plans
we can kind of put aside some money that actually is better for us not to see
versus when it's on the paycheck
you have to try and take out some of that money.
You always find something a little extra that you'd like to get that month
long term probably is a little bit better than short term simply because, it's automatically taken out.
that works out much better for us,
that's kind of how we do it anyway
And the old, if you can't see it, then you can't spend it, idea .
if you can't touch it, you can't spend it either.
that kind of works out where you get into, some plans that, you touch it you're going to get a penalty, that kind of thing,
it leads you to kind of say I'm not going to take it out.
I'm going to keep it and, keep it in there and let it grow so that someway, maybe for retirement you're going to have that money ,
Let's hope anyway,
you'll have that
that's kind of how we do it.
ours is more like month to month too,
short term is, to get things going
other than that, is kind of how we do it
I don't
know if time is up or what .
they'll, ,
They'll let us know .
actually do have some money in a Four Oh One K.
I just
wish I could afford to, put more away each week because I agree that it's excellent way,
it grows,
seems like at first you're not going to see a big return
as the years go on, if you're with the company for any length of time then it gets much better
you just have to kind of look at it that way
there's other savings plans or other things that you can do.
Automatic, deposit from checks to where you don't see it.
exactly whatever is in our checking account is basically just about what gets spent.
It's put into our savings account
we don't see it,
then it works out to where, you don't look at it,
you just look at the checking account,
and say this is what we have for money
that's it,
checking account's a very dangerous place for money to be I'm convinced.
easy because you do spend it,
that's for sure.
Like I said, you kind of look at it,
you better have some other way of, savings,
checking accounts aren't the best for, long term type of planning,
you don't get a good return on it anyway,
I guess really not much of a return on anything these days.
Right now.
it's a bad time,
the interest is so low.
nice for people buying homes
for older people who have money
in C D s or whatever, it must be awfully hard to see rates go down to three and a half percent or whatever.
we have some in laws, that, had theirs in some money market certificates and other things and, kind of took them out of that because they got so low
your better bet is to, try to get in with something with your corporation if they have some kind of, savings plans or something like that to where they kind of match the percentage or whatever some kind of profit sharing
with a small company now
I hope they'll go in for some sort of profit sharing
that'll be very nice.
that's great,
yeah .
I guess we're kind of running out of steam on this topic here.
exactly .
just briefly.
I worked in a nursing home
I kind of know, from way back, how things used to be run
I think there has been definite changes of nursing homes
I think, if I had to personally put one of my parents in a nursing home, they would have to be pretty bad off to where I couldn't take care of them at all.
It would be something that, I would certainly,
if they're forgetting things or whatever, I'd prefer to have them at home or have them in what they call now home care
where somebody comes in
they cook meals
they clean their house for them,
that kind of thing,
they still have their own independence
and not reliable,
they don't have to be in a nursing home situation.
I don't think
the nursing homes, when I was working in them, were very much understaffed, very much, in need of good personnel.
I think the patients weren't given the quality of care that
I wouldn't have,
I look at it and say thank God,
I got out of that kind of situation.
were not given the time
they were not given the money, basically, to staff, appropriately, people to help.
I can remember lifting a patient all by myself, simply because there was not another person to help.
It's the patient in bed all day long get them up
I would have preferred to get them up than to leave them in bed all day.
I think nursing homes changed.
I'm not quite sure,
hopefully, they have.
I guess I haven't had that much experience.
I've only seen my great grandparents in a nursing home
I have an aunt who lived on her own until she was well in her nineties
then got sick
she ended up in nursing home
my parents went to visit her
it got to the point where home didn't want to deal wi , her anymore
they gave her drugs to keep her asleep.
think can happen
I think in the nursing home that I worked for,
I wasn't quite sure of it,
I'm sure that some of the patients were, given medication to keep them
Nice sedative state.
they would just lay all day long
and, the ones tha ,
they also put mentally ill patients in the same,
they were not on the same, ward,
were in the same nursing home
mentally ill patients could walk into where the other, older people that were in there for reasons of, age,
the mentally ill patients could walk right the rooms or do whatever they wanted to basically.
Because if you weren't there to watch them and keep them in their own wing, freedom to just walk around
I remember one time watching one of the, schizophrenic patients actually go out on, a binge or whatever you want to say it
she grabbed a hold of this,
it was kind of funny when I looked back at it,
I remember the patient getting very upset.
That woman actually pulled, the other person's hair.
she just came up right behind him and pulled his hair,
it was a guy that was just really upset.
he (( said )) what the hell are you think you're doing,
I laughed at it then
then I'm thinking God,
if I had to put my parents in that nursing home, I wouldn't want them there.
I think there's laws now have to keep the mentally ill totally away from these people and not in the same type of facilities,
even though they're aging mentally ill, they are still mentally ill
a lot of these older people not insane or anything like that.
They don't have these tendencies lash out.
To be violent.
seeing that kind of made me think twice about,
I wouldn't put my mother, father in that nursing home at all.
Was this in a big town or a little town?
A small town.
(( )) it seems like the small town nursing homes, there's a
I don't know.
lot more personal attention.
I don't know.
kind of look at it this way.
I think if you have a big city area, I think there's more people to keep watch on it.
You have
more options.
you have more competition.
I think nursing homes have to be better than when there's one nursing home for a whole community.
this is back in nineteen seventy seven that I worked there
huh .
I look back at it and say jeez,
would have to be awfully bad for me to put my parents in there.
my grandmother, later on got cancer and, could no longer,
actually she,
taxes .
Do you want to go ahead?
We pay far too much in taxes.
far too much for what we get.
it's just,
I agree.
I don't know, it seems too much of the money is just lost .
I think, when I look at, all the things that are coming out now about over spending and spending money that's not there and buying things that are extremely expensive where they could buy it better discount,
You mean like those, twenty thousand dollar toilets ?
That's exactly, the whole thing.
When you take a look at all those issues of where our money is going
it's just,
as long as the person that's spending the money, doesn't think about
I can go out and spend anything that I want to
it's just unlimited,
it's real easy to spend other people's money.
An unlimited source
think I'll go out and buy a four hundred toilet seat
I could have went to K Mart and bought it for, ten or fifteen .
that kind of thing
don't mind them getting what they need.
It's just when they pay so much for it.
(( It takes )) very little to just shop around and,
I know a lot of, corporations now are looking at their amount of money that's being spent
they're looking
That's true .
at what's the best buy.
It used to be through certain people
you didn't care what you paid.
I mean you just got it done.
Now people are putting in bids for things and are looking at things.
Going to actually shop at Best Buy for,
for fax machines, things like that, instead of going through these office supply companies that mark up their amounts and say, I'll give you a legal pad for five bucks,
you can go to another shop and get it for maybe sixty cents cents
that kind of thing
I'm also wondering why our taxes are still so high considering the world's probably in better shape now than it has been in the last fifty years .
Except for everything keeps going up,
I know as a middle class,
also I have one dependent has
my daughter
I keep looking at where's the relief
I know.
for having children.
there is none .
I think I paid just as much as when
I know,
I don't even,
I didn't have her,
I don't even get to see half my paycheck.
Between Four Oh One K the thirty four percent they're taking out for taxes.
Let alone what I end up having to pay .
that's the whole thing.
Now they have gotten this wonderful idea of not taking out as much taxes,
you're still going to owe the government as much money
by the end of this coming year, what's going to happen is all these people are going to find out that they owe the government
it certainly isn't going to be in their savings, account.
they won't be able to pay.
They won't be able to pay it
there'll be a lot of problems because of that,
Put people into, January or February which is always suppose to be,
the month after Christmas is supposed to be high spending because everything is on sale.
Nobody's going to have the money to spend.
(( none )) .
They're going to be paying on their taxes
they're going to have to just cut back
I don't know where the answer is
I don't,
in the first place, there's also taxation without representation.
I don't feel represented anymore in our government.
it's certainly not a government for me.
It doesn't take care of my needs .
that's the whole thing.
I think people are getting so fed up with it.
Now, we go through another election and listen to all these lies about the,
people don't care anymore either.
People don't want to go out to vote.
I don't think people think they can make a difference.
when you've got candidates as you do.
It's candidates that have money
it's backed by big business.
big business says we don't care about the little person
you're not going to get anymore Abe Lincolns
going to backfire because
who knows,
little people who buy everything,
Generations from now we might, set back in our little, rocking chairs and watch our grandchildren go through an entirely different system of things and say, this government itself isn't working.
Just like the communist government of, the old U S S R.
Yeah .
maybe that's going to happen to America where they'll say, hey
we're fed up.
I wonder though .
Maybe it'll have to be just individual state tax.
And each state take care of itself and no government type of,
where you have to pay out to federal or whatever.
I don't know.
Who knows
I'm not .
I don't know,
I can't think of any easy answers to it
something has to happen,
I'm certainly fed up with it.
Yeah .
Everybody is,
in fact, I'm not sending in my check ,
what do you think?
be forced to do a year of service?
think they should be forced,
I think they should be, I guess, encouraged do some kind of public work, I guess get them, I guess involved with community maybe,
just community activity.
If nothing else, see how the city works, stuff like that.
I think something like the Peace Corps is a bit harsh.
No kids,
think so, too.
I think that's a bit dramatic,
other than that I think a good idea to get them involved in city and community activities and, the, shelters and, , that kind of, thing,
Vol ,
helping out, volunteering, I guess, if they can.
I think it's a little harsh to say that they should have to spend a year or two.
I'd force them.
I think mo , I think a lot of kids actually do a lot of work
no one just realizes it.
Your right,
I do, too,
I think they start out young, like in, Girl Scouts and Boy Scouts
doing s ,
Boy Scout.
As part of being a Boy Scout, you had to do, projects all throughout
to become
Ex ,
an Eagle Scout you have to yearlong project.
what we did in Girl Scouts
that got you involved real good
starts kids out on the right track
it lets them decide if that's what they enjoy doing.
I, I think people generally volunteer.
That there's no problem with getting them to,
do stuff.
I do, too.
volunteer than we, than get credit for it hospitals the shelters and stuff like that.
even if it is a couple times a year like at the holidays, at least they're getting out and doing it and out.
I think that's good
we have a funny commercial around here.
It says something like, if people were to give five,
hours a week or five percent of their salary,
solve all the world's problems or something.
I guess if we all give five hours a week or five percent of our salary we could,
or, or, or just force kids to serve for, parents, I guess.
Yeah .
There you go.
my kid will do four or five hours this week for me.
No problem.
it sounds pretty good .
That sounds good.
I've noticed a lot of, , different organizations in our community, pick up, like on the highway and stuff,
I think that's pretty neat.
They, go along and have so many miles I guess of highway to take over
they clean it up.
I've seen that.
And keep it clean.
I think that's I pretty good idea.
I think,
I've seen a lot of young kids doing that
I think it gets them prepared learn how to volunteer as they get older.
I know I did, in Girl Scouts and everything
and after that in high school I would volunteer at a nursing home and stuff like that .
just started trying to get together like, like that around here from the community because, we had a big ice storm
You don't sound like you're in the north.
You sound like you're in the south somewhere.
I'm in Texas.
Where are you at?
I'm in, New York.
New York.
Upstate New York,
Long way,
Yeah .
we just had a really big ice storm.
basically, our city,
right upstate. Half of the trees in the city, are no good anymore.
That's how bad it was.
Everything is just down everywhere.
we had three hundred thousand people without power.
it was,
they, we didn't have power for a week
there are still people who don't have power.
Are you serious? .
it's been ten days already
there are still something like ten thousand people without power.
my God,
how do they live?
were officially, yeah,
we're officially in a state of emergency.
Funny thing is how they covered it.
I haven't heard a thing.
I think it made about three minutes on one of the national news stations or something
we've been in a state of emergency ten or eleven days.
We just got our phone back today,
Go , .
they're putting out ads now for people to come volunteer,
or to have their organizations come,
volunteer to help clean up the streets.
that's good.
That's great.
we have,
that a tree is down people need help
a lot of older folks need help getting,
their yards cleaned out because they can't afford to pay anyone
they certainly can't carry it themselves
Right . *
one thing we do at our church is, we have a group called Hearts and Hammers,
we go along
I'm really not sure how we find the individuals,
we find older people that cannot afford to fix up their homes that it,
we go along with all the material and in one day, more or less, go in and say, roof, paint, fix whatever we can.
that's great.
and spend a day doing,
that's really neat.
it's not a lot because you're just doing a house at a time,
every little bit helps.
is that supported by all donations to the church and so forth
have man who owns a building company.
he donates a lot, not everything, but a lot of the material.
Then what he doesn't donate we just go out and buy.
That's real nice.
promote it a lot outside the community because we don't want recognition for it,
so much as, we just want to help people out.
it's real neat.
that's real good.
bet it gives you a real good feeling
to be doing that.
like I say,
it's not a lot,
it helps people.
this last couple we helped, they were in their eighties
she was bedridden
tears your heart out to
to see this kind of thing
if you can do any a little bit, it helps,
that's real good.
organizations like that in college,
We had a community service group in college that had all sorts of different groups
Big Brother, Big Sister, stuff like that.
I'm convinced that at least twenty five percent of our school participated in group.
That's great.
That's a lot.
Twenty five, I don't know. Twenty five percent? .
my wife was big in that .
a lot of kids, though.
she thinks, A yeah,
twenty five percent.
was a small school .
still good chunk of kids.
a lot of people would get involved
there were all different,
organizations to do.
There was Big Brother, Big Sister,
they had a yearly auction,
they had a dance marathon for charity or, support that,
That's neat.
Such that, lots of people got involved that way.
That's great.
That's great.
I'll agree with you, though,
I don't think they should have to do a year .
neither do I.
I think it should be completely optional
have, a year in them to volunteer if you know what I mean.
They're not worth it .
they're not worth a year.
some people just can't even afford it,
the Peace Corps doesn't pay very well.
that's true,
that's true.
People get shipped off
their parents,
I have a friend right now.
he and his wife just went off to visit her
I know I could never afford to go visit a kid in Guatemala.
I couldn't either.
I couldn't either.
I think,
the kid's certainly not making much money.
I can see where
may be a problem.
I just know one person that's in the Peace Corps
she's a teacher just wanted to do it.
She'd been a teacher for a while.
Just decided she wanted to do it,
I'm grateful for people like that,
I don't see how they can just,
Just take off a year.
pick up and head on out.
I don't,
I wish I could do something like that,
I can't,
neither can I,
I, I, I, I,
did my service before
I'll do my little community service throughout, but never
that's the way I am.
never for a year again.
I know the feeling.
I guess our vote is no .
That's right .
We're against it .
That's right.
it's been nice talking to you again.
You, too,
I hope everything works out up there.
slowly getting everything back together again.
taking time,
we got lucky.
We had no damage to our house or anything
that's great.
The rest will just have to come with time.
good luck.
good luck to you, too.
Bye bye .
Bye .
All right,
feelings on what caused the S and L crisis
I guess I don't have a real technical knowledge for what happened
I gather that there where large numbers of situations where loans were made that appeared to be a good loan but in a speculative since
with little regulation going on because of deregulation during the Reagan eight years, more and more S and L simply began to take riskier and riskier loans
when they began to collapse one after the other I think almost like an avalanche property values devalued.
kind of like a domino's effect.
I don't have field for whether or not this is the equivalent of what was called the teapot dome.
(( )) .
are you familiar with that,
from your histories lessons or whatever.
I vaguely recall
I've never gone and done any study on it since the S and L thing
that teapot dome scandal is gobs of land sold at really inflated prices on the theory that there were natural gas beneath it,
appeared to be corruption within the Hoover administration.
I don't have a real since corruption that caused S and L all though I have a feeling that people look the other way when things began to go sourer maybe.
I don't think it was really corruption that caused it,
I think people just started, being as careful with the loans that they were making they gave them out.
I think maybe they didn't check into them enough
maybe because everyone else was doing they figured they would just go ahead and approve it also
It seems like there were on awful a lot of people making loans and business decisions on a
get rich quick is the wrong phrase
it captures some of feeling I have from the people making business decisions that if they failed it's sort of no skin of my back
I'll move on to this other company,
just since that they didn't have a commitment to the stability of the organizations they making the decisions for.
I don't know whether that's because they had other opportunities to which they could move, that it was that easy for them to find new work that they stuck to where they were
things begin to collapse
they just moved on.
I'm not sure.
Or whether they had extracted enough money in a percentage base didn't care any more,
rather puzzled about the,
whole thing .
I know a little bit about it
I don't as much as I should know about it
I'm a finance major here at Clarion.
I do know that one of the reasons that caused it is the fact that the federal reserved backed any loan that the Savings and L made with hundred thousand dollars.
they were kind of insured with that hundred thousand dollars
I think that's kind of why were making the riskier loans,
they were like we have a hundred thousand dollars insurance on it.
have a since of risk.
I don't think so.
where the fact where they were allowed to make loans in, type of loan
some banks, they're limited to the types of loans that they're allowed to make.
I think the S and L s were more open with the types of loans that they were allowed to make.
I think if they would be more bound to certain loans and not as high of insurance by the reserve, then I don't think this would have happened.
do you think a final accounting, yet not, in the since of pennies an nickels,
do you think there's accounting on an ordered of magnitude they really do understand how much money it is,
for awhile it seemed like every time I opened the paper up it was escalating in terms of damage,
your since that we now understand how bad it is, *
is there more to be heard yet.
I think that people just basically got tired of hearing it
as good news as it was.
I think it's still, adding up,
I think it will be for awhile.
you don't think necessarily they don't have a complete grasp yet,
or whether (( )) .
don't think they do.
they could find was really lost or how much they were going to lose, because there still are some S and Ls still open.
very possible for them to go down in the future because of this.
To be caught in the (( )) .
Do you think possibly that it will help with the regular banks?
don't know.
it would be harder
I think there are some regular banks that will go down with it.
It seems that I recall reading year of bank risks relative to the loaning funds to third world countries like Mexico, Venezuela.
and Argentina based on oil loans
the price of oil gone south resulting in those loans being very risky,
I guess I read articles of various banks that have done the right thing to contain their risks given that they had made multiple billion dollar loans.
I have this vague since that, that could happen there are still monies loaned out to third world countries that could end up being totally lost.
in some of my classes now I was just (( reading ))
I think it was in Venezuela
I can't remember what company it was,
they just wrote off millions of dollars because they know they will never get it back.
wrote it right off.
we've lost a lot of money
we going to get it back
it's impossible to get it back.
you think that it's just gone.
cause we're talking about some peens that have just even gave up on getting it back and trying any more.
They just totally wrote it off their book.
Do you think it is necessary to have the federal guaranty program
my since is it was there to try to protect small investors
it ended up protecting big investors.
Which I don't think what it was meant to do,
I guess feel like as long as we have the possibility for this large numbers of people to be protected the possibility exist for these sorts of problems.
I think is it necessary to have, the backing,
it's just for, safe purposes, in case something would happen.
as long as there's enough little companies we're going to have to have something.
your since is loan guaranties really were accounts guaranties,
account holders that if something went wrong they would have their money.
given that the S and Ls have had disasters then their money is still being protected.
million of people with anywhere from thousands to tens of thousands I guess of,
Of dollars being protected.
seems like, there was a lot of money being protected in multiple accounts,
you take ten million people and protect ten thousand dollars it still only a hundred dollars
we're taking about monies way in access of that now
it's obvious that we've protected large accounts.
And perhaps multiple people in multiple S and Ls
it seems like maybe that needs to be
You know that the, for,
I guess I'm content with the need to have protection accounts
I feel likes it's on an individual basis.
Someone whose got accounts in thirty five different S and Ls or thirty or forty thousand dollars
they're all protected by the government.
Seems to me like they've gotten around what was ,
intended to be the issue there.
I guess I don't have a personal since of V on it since I,
was not a heavy user of any S and Ls
let alone any of them that went bankrupt.
I guess that means that from my perspective it could happen again,
I think it could happen,
that means,
I'm not worried enough,
it's kind of thing where maybe we'll survive
it will happen again because we don't pay attention to those kinds of things.
I think it'll happen again
I think it will be a long time in the future before it does happen again.
I think the bank people in any kind of people like that are going to be worry enough not to let it happen again in the near future.
I think later on they're going to start and forget about and start making the riskier loans
you're going to have to take some risk
as long as their backed I think they're still going, start taking on riskier loans,
I think there is a chance of it possibly happen again but not until, late, in the future.
perhaps if there are regulatory, constraints put back in place.
It will protect that
maybe we have learned a little bit of a lesson here about what happens if you remove a little of the regulation,
my family moved to Texas about eight years ago.
My husband was raised here, by
have never lived here,
when we came back to Texas, I was really kind of excited.
There wasn't a state income tax
there wasn't a tax on food that we purchased at grocery store and things.
all of that was new to me,
I'm sort of feeling like we're getting a better deal here , than what I was accustomed to.
Did you move from the Northeast?
I lived in Missouri and then in Utah
places had pretty good state income tax.
we've always paid tax, on everything we purchased, even food at the grocery store.
I thought it was really, kind of a pretty good deal not to have to pay tax on your groceries
paying taxes.
it's hard,
I think that is what we have to our streets and our government and have the services that we need
we have to pay for them and pay for the employment of the people that run them things like that
I think, I guess, what I feel is that most people, they don't like to pay taxes because they feel like there's some people that aren't paying their fair share.
I think,
that makes you feel bad.
People that can really influence the government have all the money to throw.
last year the elections were going, on the governors election and state and,
didn't have anything against Clayton Williams personally or anything,
it was kind of hard for me to think, here's someone as wealthy as he is,
didn't have to pay any income tax.
That he said that year,
he claimed, to pay income tax
he thought,
there's some people are living good life styles,
they're not paying income tax.
that's not fair,
to me.
there's, some people, who are abusing the systems that we pay taxes to support
all that makes us feel bad.
I think, all in all, how I feel, is that, I'm willing to pay the taxes because I think I like our country compared to the other countries I've studied and visited.
I'm willing to pay extra to live here and to enjoy the services that I enjoy.
How do you feel?
I agree that you have to pay taxes for the services you get
there's that everybody would think is fair, as far as, being taxed.
I guess, in Texas with,
we live here also,
and that it's mostly sales tax,
really the people that have money to buy things are paying the more because they're paying the sales tax on the larger items that they buy and stuff.
I've lived in Texas most of my life.
We, lived in Kansas City for a couple of years,
we were kind of in for a rude awakening.
They had personal property taxes on cars
the first year we were there it was kind of like, eight hundred dollars,
we're (( )) .
My husband says I used to complain to pay sixty dollars to get licensed in Texas
that was kind of different
to file state income tax, was also kind of tough, too.
I guess, since we've been married, we've moved a lot,
it always seems like, we're always paying taxes for something.
it was kind of nice this year to finally be able to get a little money back.
I, have a accounting background,
I then, have also done tax returns in the past for other people when I worked for an accounting firm.
it is kind of sad to see how the people that have the resources to hire somebody and have the money to spend to put there money in places, they don't have to pay taxes.
Or to buy something that loses money so that they can offset the income that they get or whatever.
why the rich people don't want to pay,
a percent
that's not really fair, either.
If they've earned money by themselves, people just kind of (( given )) the money,
it's kind of depressing sometimes, I think.
it is,
sometimes, I think, for myself, that income that we have, we pay a certain salary,
I think the employer keeps in mind this will be deducted,
many taxes will be deducted from it
I think, our salaries are a little bit higher because we have to pay taxes on it.
I think, in that way, we're compensated, just by our society.
yet, they don't pay you, it would take,
if you pay taxes on it, you wouldn't have any money left over.
some of the people that make a great deal of money and everything I wish that they would,
that's true .
I wish that they would, realize that couldn't make this kind of money,
they couldn't live that kind of life style anywhere else.
In that,
even if they made that kind of money, there's some countries that have fifty percent income tax, that have,
socialized medicines and things that,
wouldn't be able to enjoy the (( )) in that.
they need to be willing to pay a little bit more for it.
they've earned it.
And yes,
they have such great fortune here,
they need to pay for it, too, because they couldn't do it somewhere else.
I like Texas, not having the state income tax
I hope that
we've had enough industry here, that, I guess it,
is that why we don't have
industry here is able fund the state because we have oil here and things,
that's what I've always heard.
Is that,
They must have enough other stuff because the way the oil has been the last few years, really has not been,
Big boom.
the industry that is bringing in the money for the taxes, I wouldn't think.
There's something about, the industry in the state,
there's enough.
I know, we moved here from Houston
the city had enough money.
It was really nice that they had, that
they began to cut back because of the oil problems,
they would have, so many community outdoor theaters and,
And community country club type things.
That the,
it was such nice services to offer the residents in the city
I really liked that.
Don't you have to,
people decided to expect certain services,
Then, they don't really think they should pay for them, maybe.
I don't know.
That's true.
the property tax that we pay is so much higher than my parents pay in Missouri.
comfortable at least in this year,
we have some good schools.
The school thing might be changing
I'm willing to pay for that for my children.
I'm willing to sacrifice, I guess.
I'm not going to be the type of person that's going to grumble about the taxes, even though we're paying a pretty high percentage.
I feel like you get what you pay for
I want to be here
living here in this country
having seen other countries, I'd much rather live here and pay taxes,
than live somewhere else and not .
I guess, I better let you go.
it was nice talking to you.
it was nice.
I've never initiated one of these phone calls.
Do you call in
do you get to pick the subject
They just define it to you
I see.
you of the draw
Yeah .
good luck to you.
you, too.
Bye bye.
My name's Ken,
Hi Ken,
my name's Diane.
you're in Texas,
I'm in San Antonio.
Everybody's in Texas.
I'm in Rochester, New York.
Everybody else but one has been in Texas.
I guess we should get on with this.
did you get the message about what it was,
go ahead,
I'm going to hit the button .
do you think that the Soviet Union represents a threat to us?
I think they'll always represent a threat or not there's an active cold war or not.
a totally different economy based on different beliefs, different priorities,
given military powers on both sides, I think it's always a threat.
That's interesting.
I don't,
suspect they're not our biggest threat anymore.
Probably not,
I suspect it's probably some crazy man like Saddam Hussein
who's our biggest threat,
I agree with you they'll always be somewhat of a threat given so big,
there's just so much military machine there.
it's recognized that the two great powers
are us and them,
the great powers are always pitted against each other.
I wonder how much longer they're going to be
I don't know .
going downhill pretty steady.
agree right now they're not,
I don't believe they're a large threat right now.
I think there's always some threat.
I agree.
if something were to happen, I'm sure they would all of a sudden band together just of unity against us or something
if need be.
I feel kind of sorry for them right now, because the people are, wanting things that we have that they're not allow ,
just some basic freedoms,
their government is not allowing it,
Gorbachev seems to be going back on some of the things that he's been trying to push.
I noticed this, this most recent scare of his, where that
if there are any demonstrations Boris Yeltsin, he decided, I'll just cancel all demonstrations altogether.
I think that, he's actually,
he, I think, is becoming very dangerous
because he's making those people angry at him,
making, the military angry at him.
I've heard stories now military is running around,
they're sort of getting restless,
a restless military is the kind of thing that happens,
like with the Baltic states when they just go in there
divvy the people up.
See, I'm concerned since he's banned demonstrations altogether, that he's going to do the type of thing that happened in Tiananmen Square,
he's going to wipe out, no telling how many of his
own countrymen, right in the middle of Red Square,
it's going to cause civil war than is already occurring.
That's interesting.
I don't know if he's,
the thing about Gorbachev strikes that he wouldn't be that dumb .
I don't know though.
I don't know.
might be something that he wouldn't be able to control.
that's something that really true
(( )) sort of a military thing I was speaking of before.
certainly true.
his military may just go out and say, we just,
Gorbachev said you can't do it,
we're to not let you do it,
real scary,
I would expect their own problems would keep them away from us for a while,
it could be real dangerous.
we've got our own worries at the moment.
we don't need to worry about them.
I guess as long as, they're fighting each other, we don't have to worry about them wasting their time with us.
wouldn't it be nice if no one had to fight anybody else.
impossibility, I think
given the differences in the world,
people are just too different.
I think that we're all not different as everybody thinks.
unfortunately, aren't that insightful.
certainly true of it.
They just see that this guy prays differently and to someone else than I do.
therefore, he's wrong
he's bad,
we have to him out.
That's true.
discussing with someone before,
this, someone before, one of these calls
matter of fact about another topic,
it came up,
one of these calls
matter of fact, about, another topic,
it came up,
this poem, Everything I Wanted to Know I Learned in Kindergarten, or something.
You've read that one before.
I haven't read it.
I've heard all about it, though.
this is the idea that is, is, what I think we should all revert to.
The idea that,
basically they said, everything happened in kindergarten,
in kindergarten we learned to share,
we learned to, play with each other,
we learned to take nap, and to take naps,
whenever we'd start a fight we'd all apologize and hug each other
that would be all.
If we could just do the same thing sort of, with everybody else, I suspect be fine.
people grow up,
they forget.
sort of wonder how, having never been to the Soviet Union, how different the people there really are,
How much (( )) ,
That's one of the places I would most like to go.
Not right now, of course
at some point I would like to go to Moscow to, just to see all these things that you can see on television now and can read about
ten years ago we didn't have this kind of information
we didn't know what things were like.
love to go there. not now, but at some point, to go see this is like,
is amazing, because, this is an example of an entirely different culture that wants to be like us.
Like you said before, (( ))
it would be interesting to watch.
the, the people.
I just feel so sorry for the people in the country, that can't do any ,
they can't change it.
They try
nothing that they can do.
the ones I even feel somewhat worse for, even,
the ones in the Baltic states
where they don't have a strong leader, then,
Russia has some sort of strong leader.
I mean they have Yeltsin yet sort of help Russia.
the Baltic states, I think, are just sort of trapped.
they were taken over ago
and then just sort of told, you're here now,
you're part of our country.
You be this way.
sad state of affairs,
probably not dissimilar from the, the, the (( )) , something like that in Northern Iraq
who are actually countrymen of,
some of them were split off into Israel, I believe,
some of them are in Turkey
when actually they're their own people and their beliefs and their own culture system.
they were split up into three different countries.
they're very dissatisfied,
causing wars right now,
I don't think it's that different from what the Baltic states going through.
it sounds similar.
now they just want to sort of speak up and say Hey,
we want our piece.
they have a problem,
they have (( )) Muslims to deal with
as well as Saddam Hussein.
think their big problem up there is, unfortunately,
not only are they vic ,
there's more than one group fighting for the same place.
They all want the,
whereas the Baltics are saying, we want our own.
We just want this little tiny piece of land.
one that I think,
one of the that I work for is married to an Iranian,
she has a lot of insight, because she knows a lot of the history
of the countries over there,
within five or six countries there are probably ten cultures of people,
don't all have their own country,
some of them are mad about it .
my wife is Syrian,
also I know some of the history (( )) .
the other funny thing is that Jewish.
We're sort of like the Middle East peace talks ourselves.
I know,
I've been to Israel,
I know,
I sort of toured the area,
I know that it really is of different cultures in one place,
it's, it's almost the same thing in the Soviet Union right now.
you can't take a whole bunch of people who just aren't the same people and don't want to be together and put them together forcibly.
we did it couple of hundred years ago here,
they wanted to do it.
I don't think the people here two hundred years ago were that different,
I really don't.
certainly true.
they had the same ideals and the same basic beliefs.
if now the people in the Soviet Union don't have ideas very different from that.
they might.
The Baltic states might be feeling the same way that our forefathers felt when they were leaving to come here ...
Good morning.
Good morning.
go ahead.
(( )) , no,
go ahead.
I understand the topic this morning is, our policy in Latin America and, what we've been doing down there.
as you indicated you don't have too much input into the area
just so happens that, our daughter in law is Panamanian,
we have been in Panama
I have worked in El Salvador
we visit Mexico occasionally,
, yeah,
do have a little information on it here,
very good,
when I was in college I visited Mexico several times,
I was in the Peace Corps and,
recently I have been following the Middle East rather than,
Central America .
it does seem to have quieted down there just a little bit
for sure.
the U S policy, towards Central America as far as,
I kind of go back the El Salvador thing because Texas Instruments had plant down there for a while,
I worked in there for a little while,
at that particular time,
that was seventy three, seventy four kind of before the Civil War really picked up down there,
U S policy at that particular time there was, of course, military assistance the government itself,
anything anti Communist, we kind of had a tendency to be pro .
It don't matter what their excesses were,
I believe at the time that I was down there, that, (( )) really gotten out of hand yet,
the, (( right wing death squad )) type situation
I believe that, that was beginning to form
I wasn't really aware of it's being, terribly, (( )) at the time I was down there,
I think that really kind of developed a little bit later on,
our policies seem to be pretty much one of, trying to setup businesses down there and use the one resource, anyway, that Salvador had, ,
plenty of that was people.
We didn't seem to be going in and taking anything out of the country other than just labor,
everything that T I did anyway shipped in
it was worked on down there, assembled, and then sent back here,
did that have,
I didn't feel that we really them any.
feel we were, exploiting in the sense of we were benefiting
they weren't.
in the particular incidence that I was aware of, (( )) T I wasn't the only ones in there,
Playtex was in,
there was, several other companies,
of course, we kind of concentrate on (( )) ,
there wasn't much to take out of the country
(( )) I felt like we're going in and taken all gold or oil,
or bananas or coffee or anything like that,
it just,
the only thing that they had a great abundance of was, human beings
we tend to, change their
sometimes when Americans go into foreign countries they tend to flaunt American things, Americanism, consumer products, T V, the whole works.
I understand what you say.
There was a,
the time that I was down there, I stayed quite bit at big hotels (( San )) Salvador.
at the time I thought there ought to be a law against American tourists. Because they, for the most part, tend to be the most obnoxious group,
I saw this in Panama also,
almost stereotype,
flowery shirt, shorts, camera hanging around their neck, demanding (( this, that and the other )) thing,
we want this,
we want that,
and that sort of thing,
the stereotype that's very strong down there,
the, that sort of thing,
I believe those of us who were working down there, got a little bit more appreciation for, the local, culture (( ))
I really don't believe that we were quite that bad,
yet they were having to deal directly local people.
brash or ugly American type,
I saw incidences in the hotel where I just wanted to go over and crawl in the corner and say, my God
not Americans
they can't be.
there are
of course, I remember one case where we had some Canadians in there who were every bit as bad,
just kind of the North American situation (( )) .
In Panama they've been used to Americans down there for so darn long
I didn't see quite as much of that sort of thing, as Panamanians are just about as (( )) as Americans, as far as, creature comforts,
they're every bit,
know, when, son was in the Air Force
he was stationed in Panama,
he married a Panamanian girl,
when she came up here,
except for the language situation, some of the (( cultures )) she's just about an American,
far as T V moneymaking part of it and all that,
matter of fact if anything, she's worse.
huh .
there's little (( enclaves )) down there where, Americans (( have )) a lot of influence
the local population kind of, sort of accepts that,
I've also seen the other side of it, too.
huh .
you were in Peru?
I was in Peru,
I wasn't aware of that many Americans there except for a very heavy concentration of Peace Corps volunteers,
huh .
this was when the Peace Corps first are started,
it was one of the big targets
think, at that time, at least, Peace Corps was, an obnoxious group in the sense we were very controlled regarding number of days off
you couldn't just, and leave your group and go explore things like that,
I was working actually in the savings and loan program,
that was quite specialized,
although I was living in the slums, I was really working with the middle class.
huh .
area (( did )) you live in?
I was up in (( Arequipa )) .
(( okay ))
I've heard of it.
is Peace Corps still active down in there?
I don't have any idea,
probably not,
thirteen, which meant there were twelve groups before mine,
that had gone in
some of them were quite big in the sense they were community development,
they were building schools and doing co ops and things like that,
health, inoculation things.
has those influences lasted (( ))
do you know whether things you and your groups before you did, live on
were they reabsorbed
I believe they did
Peace Corps, that I knew of, did marry Peruvians,
huh .
and have been back
every now and then some news filters in that they went to see some of the old things,
and of course, the savings and loan program, that, that just continued to grow.
In fact, after my group,
we were just a very small specialized group, too, to get that going and spread
of course, Peace Corps bowed out of that because that's, something that nationalized very quickly.
And the same with the co ops.
was kind of aim wasn't it, to get it started and then have it,
taken up by the,
I had wondered sometimes,
I knew that there was effort
a lot of work went into a lot of that,
I just wondered it lasted, and if it took,
huh .
r ,
concern about like, the language teaching,
why should we push English,
huh .
a lot of people were down there teaching English
when they talked about Hungary or someplace, one of the eastern (( law )) countries requesting Peace Corps to teach language, to me that's a little bit marginal.
I did teach economics at the university one night a week,
the textbook was in English,
basically I taught it in Spanish,
because, I really didn't see the point in their knowing stuff (( rotely )) and writing it on a test.
my brother in law teaches at, Northern Illinois University
they were in China, a couple of years ago,
he was over there at, the University of (( Shah )) teaching ...
describe your family budget.
pretty much flied without one,
just recently, set up a budget,
we're trying to stick to it.
We just bought a new house.
what fixed expenses are per month,
we've got some ones that are variable, that pretty much stay within a certain range,
there's the ones that you never know anything about,
the food
to some extent, utilities, I imagine.
the utilities are pretty much,
you can pretty much figure what they're going to be,
one of the nice things here is the electric company has a plan where they'll average them out for you.
They have that to some extent here,
it's not quite as good.
And, transportation expenses,
I guess you own a car.
you know how much you're going to drive every week?
know, fairly close to exactly how many miles I drove, because I lived, nine tenths of a mile from work.
it was, two miles a day to and from work.
it kind of cut my transportation costs a lot.
now I've just bought a new house,
I'm a half hour,
my transportation costs have gone up by, five times .
I understand that.
have a real similar situation.
Ours, have quintupled, at least.
there is a real family budget.
pretty much,
The problem is there never seems to be enough money.
I have three children,
it seems like the more money you make, the more money you have, the more things that they seem to need,
of course, nothing ever goes down,
I remember,
I have five children total.
I have three left in the house.
I can remember years ago, when school would start,
I'd go buy all five kids, shoes,
I could get shoe store without spending more than thirty five dollars.
Nowadays, thirty five dollars buys about one pair of shoes
If you're lucky.
I mean things have just really gone out of sight in ten years.
Exempt or nonexempt.
I'm exempt.
must be nice.
Part of the high price spread.
we don't have a family budget.
We have the fixed things we have to pay.
we have the things that are extras.
it seems that by and large the extras just don't exist.
And, the auto budget,
car payment sucks a hell of a lot of it dry.
And insurance,
is insurance bad there?
I've got, two older cars.
There both,
one's a seventy seven
one's a seventy eight.
we've got one eighty nine.
my insurance four hundred dollars a year.
when I moved to the new town I live in,
it's a different county, which has less crime, and, highways
it's a cheaper place to live, as far as the insurance company's concerned,
I think my insurance dropped about sixty dollars a year.
That's not bad,
four hundred and something a year.
It's actually three hundred and forty for each one of the cars.
That's cheaper than we pay.
I was down in Texas for two years,
I was paying unbelievable rates for both car insurance and for home insurance.
here in Colorado it's even worse because we have no fault.
Do you have that there?
(( ))
they have no fault in Maryland also.
no fault's rather funny in Colorado, because it seems that everyone pays all the time
instead of just the guilty party pays.
strange here the way things go.
here if you have an accident and no one's injured, the police won't even show up.
You're kidding.
They say if nobody's injured, you all exchange names and take it up with your insurance company.
if you,
I don't know how familiar you are with Maryland,
Not at all.
especially, the center part of Maryland where I Ninety Five runs through it is really heavily populated.
There's just so many people and so many accidents every single day that it'd take a whole another police force just to answer the traffic.
They don't even try to keep up with it.
Not a bit.
you lived in Texas for a while.
I spent, couple of years down there.
Moved down there in eighty seven
moved out in eighty nine.
you from originally.
right here in Maryland.
you just basically went home when you had a chance.
my family, didn't like Texas,
I had a chance to, transfer up.
T I bought a company about seven months after I moved to Texas, right here in (( )) .
That's nice.
I got an opportunity to transfer back,
I took it.
that's great.
I'm a native Texan.
West Texan.
There is a difference.
believe me,
I know there is.
I lived in Plano,
I don't know if you're familiar with Plano
actually were from Texas.
Everybody else was an import.
I'm a West Texan.
Lubbock, Midland Odessa
Amarillo, Dumas, Panhandle.
A different world from down there.
Colorado's been fun.
they have a real problem.
Next to every window the state seems to have put up a turnstile.
every time you mountains
or think about looking at the mountains, you got to throw in a dollar.
so it seems.
I may just be paranoid,
that state income tax is just eating me alive.
they have a state income tax in Maryland.
I noticed when I was in Texas, they didn't have a state income tax,
they sure nailed you on those darn county taxes and,
school taxes and property taxes,
Property taxes and,
my God,
ate you alive.
Colorado, you know they have the state income tax,
then they also have property taxes,
they also have sales taxes,
they just get you every direction they can.
I just don't know, sir,
it seems like they trying to get you every which way.
it sure does.
there's, some good books that I've read, that you might be interested in.
Charles D. Gibbons is the guy who runs some ads on light night T V
he's got seminars you can go to,
they try to hook you into his organization, which costs about four hundred bucks.
he's got a couple of books out.
One of them is called, WEALTH WITHOUT RISK.
I've heard of the book.
it's a very good book.
It's tells you how to cut money on your taxes and on your insurance and then
what to do with the money that you save.
cut money on your taxes.
cut money on your taxes, and on your insurance,
he tells you how to invest that money in order to, be wealthier.
he also has a new book out that I purchased right before I moved and haven't had a chance to crack it open yet.
FINANCIAL SELF DEFENSE is the name of it.
the man, has a lot of good ideas,
some of them I already knew about,
some of them I had already practiced.
I suggest it to anyone who wants to be better off financially to read it because,
that includes everyone at T I.
I'm one of the ones that had my salary frozen for ninety one.
even, nonexempts, technically yet we haven't had our salary frozen yet.
when you're only at living wage it doesn't matter.
survival is a funny state.
I know what you mean.
was in Dallas I was supervisor,
I had four non exempts, under me.
I was appalled at they were paying them.
I just couldn't believe it.
I've been with the company for sixteen years now.
I was a W F for several years,
it just seems to improve.
doesn't seem to get much better for the exempts either, unless you're twenty eight or above.
It's really a shame.
this company that they bought, they ended up buying a very high payroll.
thought I was making a good wage,
how do you feel about the metric system?
I like it.
I have a foreign, I have more than one foreign automobile.
I find the, I find nondecimal system with all the halves and quarters,
I was trying to build a shed
they give you these measurements like forty two and three eighths inches
we had to go a little less and trying to figure what's less than three eighths, ...
I forget how many millimeters.
you used the metric?
What we did was wind up using,
you get out so many inches
we just marked a little bit less than that, which is somewhat awkward
had it been millimeters, you could have done.
I think what's interesting,
the way engineering people do is they,
they, in essence, have gotten around it listing, decimal inches.
involved in any engineering drawing stuff that? .
I work in metal fab
tenths of inches normal.
the inch is broken up and has been for quite some time tenths, hundredths, thousandths, ten thousandths, of an inch.
do you, are you involved in any other, metric type things like ...
I am.
have a Suzuki motorcycle
I've had motorcycles, Japanese motorcycles for years and years
the metric system comes easy to me.
my ...
I think it's interesting go out there
you're looking for a wrench
you want the next size larger.
stuff like fifteen thirty seconds.
that one's fairly easy, because that's probably slightly under half an inch.
some of them, twenty seven
there are some thirty seconds and some of the things don't translate.
trans ,
To go eighths to sixteenths to, thirty seconds and remember where it falls, it ...
you've got to go over there and try it
I suppose, I need a larger one.
I need a smaller one.
obviously you can look at it and say
I think the other thing that's interesting is that a lot of our stuff is already changed that we haven't,
I don't know,
drink adult beverages?
I drink beer.
have you noticed ...
whiskey is in liters.
the next,
point seven five liters and then liters and then one point seven five liters,
I thought was always kind of strange.
What's a fifth of whiskey? .
always wondered about that myself.
It was a marketing ploy.
they had quarts at the same time though.
the idea was, is that five fifths, they could sell five
it was simply a ploy get people,
more for,
find that interesting.
It's ...
it's the, the soda and this kind of things coming in
liter bottles
think it's kind of generational.
Although I must admit I'm not conversant in saying, that's three centimeters away. or ...
like I say, I work in a machine shop
everything's still inches.
(( )) .
Everything's still fractions of inches,
hard to think
or thousandths, ...
it is a mental thing.
It is a conversion thing.
It's like a mill,
we use a one mill bond wire or one point five mill wire on
on semiconductor devices.
what's a mill
what really annoys me is the way we, in the United States, have been converting to metric.
We have a eighty nine Chevy Blazer.
before that we had a Horizon. Plymouth Horizon?
both of them were a mismatch of both American and metric.
Don't you find that interesting? that they're doing that, in any field,
why pieces,
get any connection on which was metric and which wasn't.
The engine itself was mostly metric because it came from Canada.
the starter was Bosch American,
The bolts were, were English then.
half of the starter wa , three bolts on the starter
two of them were American
one of them was metric.
Now that's strange.
you go from the, water pump up to the radiator
on the water pump, it was all metric.
on, the factory fittings, the factory,
screw lock
radiator hose clamps.
Essentially they do that though
you look at General Motors, the size
and of course, Ford and Chrysler.
in a sense, it's like when, when you put, one point four three two inches, whe , when you're milling something,
you simply set your, equipment,
you got your calipers there
you measure,
you mic it to see if it's accurate
not a problem either way.
Like I said, my only complaint is where they mixed them on the same car.
you go to look at it
you don't know which set to reach in, American or metric.
you're never quite sure,
is that a metric bolt.
You get you a pair of metric pliers, right ?
you beat on it
and a metric hammer .
can be annoying
my other is, is the American government going to force us to go.
I think they've now just taken the attitude that,
a lot of things like sports,
It's a hundred meter.
automobile races
if it,
I don't think they'd ever,
it's still going to be the Indianapolis Five Hundred.
They're not going to ...
They're not going to change that to meters.
It will always be.
I don't think it, I don't, I don't think, I don't think it's particularly bothersome because in reality,
like troy ounces in ounces of gold.
How many ounces of gold,
to figure up gold content on something.
It gold plated, header.
they're trying to think of what's a Troy ounce.
There's twelve troy ounces to the pound.
that makes,
is that going to change too?
there's a metric ton
there's a ton.
what's a metric ton?
se ,
I don't know.
I don't remember.
read it.
are we still going to maintain drams for perfume?
but then the medicine.
some of these other things
the chemistry in those kinds of areas,
It's all metric all ready.
when you go to order a drink, (( )) say, I don't know, it's ...
what will a shot be?
Will a shot be an ounce?
I don't know.
when you go to the store you're trying to figure, this box is, is twelve ounces
this one's, three pounds,
you ...
the other one's two point one kis,
That's right.
I don't know.
I, I think, I think the Federal government is going to, more or less, leave it alone.
more pressing problems.
The economy.
what I was thinking about is an economical issue concerning it.
a machinist has a huge number of dollars invested in tooling.
Personal tools to be able to do his job.
the tools that,
if you're cutting,
are you talking about cutting equipment or tools
tools for set up and for measurement.
you got to have a one tenth indicator,
it's a hundred dollars.
at a hundred dollars each.
five tenths indicator at about a hundred dollars.
You got to have, six inch set of calipers at anywhere from sixty to a hundred twenty dollars.
You got to have a zero to one for sixty dollars.
one to two inch micrometer for sixty dollars.
A two to three for eighty dollars.
A three to four for eighty dollars.
you've got thousands of dollars or so.
I mean you get a thousand dollars worth of tools.
Real fast.
Real, real fast.
Edge finders and ...
I was thinking about though when you actually get to the milling equipment though, when it starts turning ...
I know,
Your end mills will be measured in inches or fractions of inches.
when you, when you simply drilling a hole, a real simple thing, like gee,
I need a hole there.
What size hole?
As in metric size hole American sized hole?
the thing is then you've got to with screws
that's the other issue.
the pitch and ...
and thread,
I don't go to the movies a whole lot,
I went two or three weeks ago for the first time in a long time and saw DANCES WITH WOLVES, which turned out to be an extremely good movie.
I haven't seen that yet.
I hear,
were going to go see it.
It's playing at school in about two weeks, I guess.
we're going to go see that.
you enjoyed that?
something that,
my brother lives over in Fort Worth,
I was telling him about a couple of weeks ago,
he said, I'll wait until it comes out on, tape and the video.
I said, no,
this is not one that you want to do that with.
That's what I heard,
and the landscape and the country that they're in needs a big screen.
It's just beautiful country with the hills and the trees and the buffalo and the whole thing,
it's amazing, amazing picture.
I've heard it's not one for the videos.
it's one I think,
every now and then you find one that you say, yeah,
this is my favorite movie.
this is the one for me this time.
What have you been to lately?
let's see.
this is almost, sort of funny.
I was just sit ,
friend and I went to see OUT FOR JUSTICE
which is Steven Segal, because, we're both big karate fans.
we wanted to see what this is like.
(( )) impressed with
Is that right?
his other movies,
I just think he's pretty good.
this movie,
I'm convinced now he can act.
How's his karate?
his karate is pretty good.
I think in this one it wasn't so good.
I generally,
movies like that scare me, though.
I'd be just fine without them, because, kids come running out wanting to beat each other up.
they do,
they get
when I was a kid, and some other movies like that.
We wanted to jump in the cars and race.
I suspect today what they see is bound to be what they want to do when they get out of it.
was number one for the week too,
it was a little bit,
I was thinking, Wow,
people must be into crime movies again.
in the middle of that conversation we sort or picked interesting point.
Last year's number one movie for the year was GHOSTS.
Is that right?
I don't know if you saw GHOSTS or not.
I did see GHOSTS.
that helped us sort of feel good ourselves and about (( )) one around us, in that if everyone's running around seeing karate movies and stuff like that, at least they're still going to see the real good movies,
I think that GHOSTS was one of those that a lot of people didn't think was going to be any good.
it turned out to be an excellent movie.
I was absolutely enthralled by it.
I've forgotten the guy's name who was in it, who had the lead role.
Patrick Swayze?
I especially like him.
he's very good.
He's a really good guy.
Other than that, DANCES WITH WOLVES seems like to be the only thing I've seen in the past several months to have any,
I'm trying to think what else I've seen recently.
What else have we seen recently.
you know, what's pretty cute
DEFENDING YOUR LIFE.
Is that right.
Have you heard of it?
seen the ads for it,
I'm not real sure what it's about.
I actually hadn't heard anything about it,
some friends called up and said do you want to go see this movie,
they said it starred, Meryl Streep and Mel Brooks,
at first they told me.
I thought, what a strange combination,
Mel Brooks and Meryl Streep.
That is a strange combination.
that it's Albert Brooks,
it's lot better.
Mel Brooks you probably know.
I know,
was a strange combination.
it turned out to be a very cute movie.
the whole premise is that they go out
they die
they have to,
Both of them.
Both of them are dead,
they happen to meet in town, sort of city where you're set up.
they go
they decide if you can move up to the next level.
I don't know if you've ever read Jonathan Livingston Seagull,
years ago.
it's something like that.
They sort of move up to levels,
they have to decide whether or not they're good enough,
as it turns out, they meet there and fall in love and stuff like that.
you can guess the rest of the plot.
it's really funny because scenes of their lives.
And then defend it.
that's pretty good
I guess that's where the title comes from then.
it's (( ))
you actually have to go up there
you and attorney,
a defense and a prosecution,
the prosecutor's job is to make sure you don't move up a level,
the defense's job is to make sure that do,
a neat little story actually.
it is.
I went thinking it'll be okay, not great,
I actually came away thinking it was really pretty good.
It's funny,
we've got a couple of movies out recently, GHOSTS and DEFENDING YOUR LIFE, that have to do with, after life, I guess.
it kind of makes you wonder,
a graduate student at North Texas and working on master's in communication.
It's the behavioral science part of communication,
I think about these things and people trying to define their own world view,
what exactly see about this world,
why are we so fascinated with the other world.
Is it supposed to be better?
The other world,
Sometimes I think we think it is.
We like those things that way.
sure that it seems like,
it certainly explain the preoccupation with (( )) ,
I suspect it's always been a preoccupation with that sort of things.
it has.
All the way through history, there's, I guess,
if you want to call its mysticism or the occult or whatever. It's always fascinated.
I guess because we don't know,
there's no real way of finding out.
There's only one way of finding it.
did you ever see, FLATLINERS.
I not.
The girl next to me saw it,
she really liked it.
that's probably one of those ones that,
it's on video now, I think.
it is.
worth seeing on video.
we really enjoyed it,
it was also right along the same lines.
would go ahead and kill themselves for three or four minutes to see what happens.
that this was almost believable
that could really happen.
you get the medical profession doing these kinds of things,
you never know.
it's a little far fetched to,
find a bunch of medical students doing it,
it was odd enough,
they didn't just sort of make it silly.
done fairly well, I think.
I actually enjoyed that as well.
I like it when they will do something and not get too silly.
I've been disappointed in some movies that, they don't know how to end it, it seems like,
then they get crazy
it doesn't end like the story has been going.
The story sort of keeps going and going.
I guess that covers our topic.
it was, talking to you.
Nice talking to you.
Bye bye.
That sounded like one.
I think that there is something definitely wrong with our school system just because of the results that you see coming out of the school system,
as far as, people dropping out of school, grades on test scores being low, more and more people taking G E D s trying to get out of high school instead of just going through high school.
You know something must be wrong as far as, just the teaching techniques but just motivation,
the schools themselves.
excuse me just a minute,
I'm on the other line Karen.
I'm sorry.
it's okay.
hear what saying about the results.
to do about it I guess is big thing.
in a kind of an interesting situation in that wife teaches school here in Plano.
I know that, the results that they get out of the system sometime certainly not , up to what the effort they put into it,
I've seen that for years,
I know,
I work around, a lot of teachers
how, supportive they are of their students and how excited they are,
some how, I don't think the students are getting excited.
I've often wondered if it doesn't come back to home environment.
huh .
no matter what they do in classroom, if they go home at night and, it's all totally undone,
thing Karen, my wife, run into so often is that you run into a group of kids that are going to succeed no matter what, no matter how bad their teachers are,
no matter what a lousy system they're in, or anything else,
these people somehow manage to,
push on through and are successful.
It's, unfortunately probably twenty five or thirty percent of them do that.
even that much probably.
would at the absolute most.
that, come out, fall out of the system, that real trouble,
wonder whether that's just part of the system,
a democracy where, people have kind of, a freedom to sort of do what they want,
an inefficiency there,
you've got to let
of doing what you want, just in society today being that it's nineteen ninety one,
a lot of teenagers and young people have a lot more freedom as far as what they do,
as far as, something as simple as staying up late, watching television late,
going out late, start dating,
you start dating too early,
just little things like that, that do start in the home,
a big part because you spend eight hours of your day, or more in school
any other part of your life, that's going to definitely affect your school life,
because you spend so much time there.
sometimes in some systems they make everything so competitive,
leave, competing against somebody else
your competing against, a system something,
a lot of the ,
there is a personality type I believe that is really noncompetitive.
They're cooperative rather than competitive,
when they get into a real competitive system they just say, what the heck,
and, tend not to, do too awful well (( )) .
I talked to, a guy the other day
he is now a program that's trying to get him out of high school because fell back several years ago
he will have gone to school five years.
the reason that he was doing so badly a couple of years ago was because his mother died,
he was having to, support his entire family, take care of his brothers and sisters,
all that had an adverse affect on his school life.
I would think so,
a perfect example of how your home life, plays a definite part.
any other aspect of your life,
that he's in this program and, he's, I guess okay,
making straight A s,
it was there, it was just, I guess school was not a number one priority for him at that time.
survival becomes more of a priority education,
unfortunately, and old joke about,
education's wasted on the youth anyway.
really appreciate it until you're much older anyway.
I know when I went to school, my attitude was kind of one of, these people are, taking a tremendous amount of my time,
I've got better things to be doing than sitting here listening to this stuff over and over again.
I guess today a program of some sort that would take care of that sort of thing,
some of the cures that I've heard for this sort of make sense,
most teachers after they have taught for a very long, especially at lower grades can spot a problem almost immediately.
it's kind of these intervention programs.
a lot of people will get to looking at these and say hey that's socialism
that's communism,
then it gets political.
When people start talking about programs that help, for me, I don't care if it's socialist,
I don't care,
as long as it's something that's going to do some good or that looks like it could be beneficial,
that's the point I'm at now.
that's the point we all should be at, is finding some solution,
nothing totally radical,
if it's something that, might help,
there's not a lot being done.
radical programs in some cases are just totally unacceptable.
There are kids, families, that should just simply be taken out of the homes,
just removed from those situations,
they're never going to get anywhere.
yet, politically that is not a very popular view.
I'm sure that if you, ran on a platform of, we're going to find the kids that are having trouble at home and we're going to take them out of the home.
Take them out.
you know how far you're going to get with that.
not very far at all.
unfortunately something like that, in lieu of that, is the intervention programs in school where kids spotted fairly early on,
get to be a problem in Texas,
I mean almost like,
because different school systems have got more or less money to take care of that sort of thing,
you got counselors and all that.
you can counsel a kid eight hours a day
he goes home
cases he's got parents either on drugs something like that,
they don't care.
mamma, I did in school today,
who cares,
now are so young.
they still don't know what's going on
how are they supposed to, teach their kids that are coming up, what's going on.
a vicious cycle,
that we're, in the center of
we have to try to swim out.
kind of like the Bermuda Triangle,
we're just sinking
it's almost impossible to swim back up.
there's definitely problems,
its just the solutions going to be in our political system,
they're going to be on everyone's mind for quite a while, too long.
I don't know if you've ever had too much to do with, especially Asian, Japanese families coming,
here in Plano we've got, quite a few.
engineering types, people who have come from Japan,
they put their kids in the U S schools
they're appalled.
not so much at what the schools are teaching, but what they let the kids get away with.
see most,
quite upset about disruptive influence of school.
Most of them would say, those people should be removed from the school system.
in Japan they would be,
here again, you get back into a political thing, where,
There's definitely too much leeway as far as,
college only two years,
you were saying that you don't appreciate education until you get out
I really didn't, I really don't see myself going back to school or anything,
I appreciate more what I had.
I had all these classes and all this knowledge and this big library across the street from my dorm,
were you at Baylor?
I just didn't take as much advantage of it as I should have.
did you go to Baylor?
I went to U T at Austin,
I mean all kinds of resources and, just there,
I'd give anything to have that right now regular li ,
have everything given to you.
I don't see why people wouldn't want that.
I don't know,
then, if I was young, I wouldn't see it.
now that it's gone, I,
you don't have the view.
I graduated from Texas Tech,
more than two years ago, I guarantee,
I kind of look back at it sometimes,
that was a lot of fun,
we ,
I'm not sure I took the greatest advantage of, what, I went through there.
I did a lot
I experienced a lot
feel like I got a good college education
just when I got out I feel like I should have spent more time in the library,
I should have taken those continuing educations classes or whatever they were,
the informal classes that you don't get credit for, ...
All right,
I guess in the process of a home repair right at this point
painting the outside of our house.
I don't know,
I guess you would consider that a home repair.
interesting enough, this time we're changing the color which makes it an addition.
What is your most recent,
We just (( )) did that, too.
You did that recently too,
Does it make a big difference?
we have brick on the outside
entire look of the house.
That's neat isn't it.
That was really exciting.
It was fun.
I was really, really tired of the color.
it's helping.
We're not quite through,
really is looking good.
we went through a process home repairs rental house we had,
probably the most extensive and, the interesting part of it was how much we learned about what we could do.
we didn't have very much money
we had to do it ourselves in kind of a slow process,
we learned how to bathtubs and, just all kinds of things that are unusual.
the other thing that we did was the roof of our house.
we did that a different color also.
Of course, being a woman most of these things were done by the men.
I wasn't directly involved
they really were helpful, I know, to our house.
It's nice to not have a drip through from the roof, isn't it .
Yeah .
Yes .
That's awful.
(( Howard )) and I were talking about home repair the other night in connection with scouting.
We've got a scout coming up
I think it's neat for young people to learn how to, take care household, like, fixing
and putting in panes of glass and stuff like that.
As a matter of fact, one thing, A I have a young son
one thing we did, was we had paneling on the hall way of our house, rather,
we were repainting front room in the hall there,
we took down that paneling
he helped me
fun to work with him.
help putty up the holes together do things,
like that.
How does the paneling,
it looks lots better than,
do you like it better?
I like it so much better.
It makes it so much lighter.
it really does.
people that have been to my house before and then now really have liked,
much better, too.
That's nice.
It's been fun.
Nice to have it come out positive and look,
look good.
we have a lot that needs be done.
We have, carpeting,
we did have a new, floor put in our kitchen.
I have my mother living with us
she was in a room with a carpet
of course, she's quite aged,
she's ninety three now,
that meant she had problems now and then
it was really good to get the carpet out of there and put a linoleum down.
it was easier to clean and see where the dirt was
C and ,
so that was a really positive,
it was fairly expensive though.
was impressed,
I think, that,
we had somebody do it
to me like it's probably more expensive to put down linoleum almost than it is to put down carpet.
Kind of depends on the quality of carpet, I suppose,
in the case of the linoleum they have to rip up everything fix the floor
I don't know,
what ever,
they have to put stuff on the floor
it's, kind of a process.
it sounds like you have some pretty good experiences home repair.
We have.
It's been really fun.
All right.
Happy home repairing.
You too .
Bye Bye.
Bye Bye.
what do you do with your credit cards?
Oh .
my husband and I have gotten into problems with credit cards.
We don't handle them very well .
tend to run them up to the maximum and then ask for more.
they're really bad for us.
matter of fact, we've gotten rid of all of our credit cards except for a MasterCard and a Visa,
we pretty much keep those maxed out.
I was going to say that, that sounds pretty many.
I see what you meant,
you had them for each of the individual stores.
probably twenty credit cards
an American Express, American Express Gold, an Optima, all the different department stores, two Visas, two MasterCards .
I had,
any time anybody would, send me an application, preapproved or whatever, it,
it really ended up getting us in some real serious trouble.
see, the more credit cards you have, the more people offer them to you.
the more you use them, the more they send them to you.
each of these had an annual fee also, right.
The American Express was probably the worst, because with the Gold card,
I can't remember how much it was because I didn't even have it very long before I gave it up
I know the Green card was like thirty five, forty five dollars a year.
forty five.
Which was a lot,
you had to pay it in full every month.
I, that's it,
I really resented the fact that they were charging me for cards,
I sent back all of mine, except the ones that were free.
I also limited it to one of each, one MasterCard and one Visa,
here, most of the stores will accept those,
I then got a Discover card since they pay you back.
I had a Discover,
that was one of the ones in the group that I ended up, closing.
it really wasn't my choice, though.
my credit cards.
I ended up going through a credit counseling service
because my husband and I just don't handle credit very well
you do that, they automatically, once you start with their service, they close your accounts out.
I see.
I'm still paying on all these accounts,
my accounts are closed.
I would prefer to keep it that way.
paid off
I would prefer just to have one MasterCard and one Visa
that's it.
I pay off my cards every month.
Only once in my life have I not paid.
I think that's a really good way to handle it, because that way, paid off every month, you never have to worry about, how much do I have to pay these guys, this month,
you buy what you can afford.
if you handle it just like you would like a check or cash
it's a lot easier to keep it in check.
also in a sense, they're giving you a loan for a month
if I were smarter, I would have that same amount in savings and get the interest, which I don't
thought of adding, X percent the price of what I buy,
I think point in time with the economy the way it is, I think that, it's going to get even worse.
glad that we're starting to pay our debts off, now,
started this last year
we probably still have about another year to go
before we're completely out of the hole.
I think way the whole economy is going right now, it's just not good to be in debt.
That's right,
that's right.
that would be a very scary feeling for me to know that I was, juggling payments to different people
I guess because I never experienced it.
it's not, because I'm rich or anything,
it's just, a mental concept that I have.
that I just.
getting rid of the whole credit card cycle, and if you really get into the mind set, I got really good at juggling money and basically robbing Peter to pay Paul,
it was scary, because I was so good at it.
I thought, this is not right.
this has got to stop, because eventually it'd end up me
it hit me in the face.
it sounds like, learned from it
you're coming out of it all right.
I, yeah,
I have,
I've learned a lot from it.
I've learned that credit cards are extremely dangerous in my hand
and my husband's too, because the same way I am.
think that,
when we buy on credit we just don't have a concept of how much money we're spending
until the bill comes in.
all of a sudden you look at the bill
you go, my gosh,
I spent this much.
now, the fact that you still have two cards,
use them, more judiciously?
we pretty much use them for emergency type things like transmission fell out on our car
that paid for a new transmission
things like that.
we try not to use them for
incidental type things, like, gas and stuff like that.
huh .
Clothing, sales.
Sales I find are a pain.
I've gotten a lot more away credit cards,
I pay by check a lot more now.
it sounds good,
Like I said, it sounds like really got it under control.
admire you for that mind set for not, not even getting, past the thirty days,
ideally where I would like to be.
like I said, happened I couldn't because my son's tuition came due,
I guess I had, not really counted on it quite at that point
I didn't like it at all.
I was very uncomfortable.
I can imagine.
it was, I thought a lot,
sixty dollars interest or something just a couple of months,
I'm going
jeez, that's outrageous,
retrospect it wasn't all that much,
a lot of people pay a lot more
still, I figured I didn't need those items if it cost me sixty dollars more to have them.
Think about what you can buy for sixty dollars.
Exactly .
Groceries for a week.
think about the money we've spent on interest
on all of our credit cards,
it's just incredible.
did you use to not feel so badly because you could take it off your income tax?
We've never been able to take it off our income tax.
fairly newly married.
I've only been married less than two years
before that, I never owned a home or anything,
I never had any deductions.
really, it was always just money
Thrown away.
thrown away.
I never really thought about it because,
You were good at it .
I was so good at it that it just kind of got stuck in the back of my mind and just never
became a real problem until all of a sudden it came an insurmountable problem.
I suspect that, thinking about it and looking at my friends and the number of credit cards that they use and, the amount that I know they buy, I guess probably a lot of them are in a similar situation, and, just don't talk about it.
people don't like to talk about money.
They feel uncomfortable, I think.
very personal.
for a lot of people it is very personal.
and especially don't feel you're handling it quite right
or that somebody might make fun of you or that it would be,
I think average American is probably pretty heavily in debt. including a mortgage.
A mortgage is an understandable debt
because you have to have a roof over your head.
I would much rather own my own home be renting it like we're doing.
we're basically, kind of throwing seven hundred dollars a month away.
We're renting a house.
right now with the way our credit card situation is, there's nobody in the world that's going to give us a mortgage on a house.
once I suppose prove yourself by paying this off next year
you'll be in very good shape.
it's going to take quite a while.
Hopefully within five years we'll be in our own home.
I'm not really counting on it real soon.
Okay .
You want to get a start?
the weather here is warm.
it has been sort of raining on and off.
I am an avid gardener
I measure the rain in our rain gauge regular basis.
I avoid wasting money on watering.
it has been threatening to rain for the last couple of days,
it has not,
really. Which is a bit of a disappointment.
it is very warm here, which is typical for this year.
How about Pennsyl ,
earlier than we are, as a rule, aren't you?
your starts a lot earlier than ours.
It starts in, March as a rule.
See that is quite a bit,
we are just beginning.
People got their gardens in, a lot of them now.
We could still have a frost.
this late?
Could you have snow?
probably not.
a frost as late in June.
Early June.
we do not have that problem .
have also had nice weather. An unusually, nice Spring.
It is almost like an early Summer for us.
that is nice.
We could use a little more rain,
I believe.
to give you some of ours .
Usually we get it great quantities in
April and May.
it stops for three months.
If it could just be spread out a little bit.
It has really been nice here,
we are supposed to have some rain this weekend,
I don't know if we'll get it or not.
A lot of times in our area the weather forecast has missed us.
weather they forecast for our area seems to go right past us and misses us. Just by, not too many miles.
Are you in an agricultural area?
We have,
is very important for people who make their living off of,
off of the land.
We have quite a few farmers.
live out in the country.
We are on a farm,
we are not a farming
person .
we have a garden.
we are not farmers.
you know there are some disadvantages to being down south.
that is, it gets so hot that, a lot of things die during the Summer from the heat.
They get burnt off.
really do,
you have to be very careful to make sure you keep everything watered.
that makes it bad too, with water being at a premium.
I know our aunt in California,
have really been rationed on their water.
it makes it real hard to have a yard anything like that, their farms.
Their farmers, I guess, are hurting because of that also.
my parents are now in San Diego,
they've got pebbles in their yard because they can't,
almost nobody there lawns.
they are not allowed to water,
what do you do?
rough on them
it is pretty moderate here in Dallas.
Summers are extremely hot.
your humidity is different though than ours I think,
it makes bit of a difference, too.
what is your humidity like?
I don't know.
I think our humidity is higher normally than what it is in Texas.
I could be wrong.
I do not know it is percentage wise
I do not know for sure either.
different when we were in Texas.
It had a different feel to it.
drier in Dallas than it is in Houston or San Antonio
or even Austin,
which is further south.
it is not dry.
I have lived here for many years,
I think it has gotten more humid over the years.
Where the water is coming from, I don't know.
it could be.
I know my brother's home has been flooded a couple of times,
does he live near the lake?
there is a lake not far
it is more run off
from surrounding, areas and that.
he is just in an area where it is just low enough that it collects there.
he has had a couple of inches in his house several times.
a problem,
they tell you when you are looking for a house or buying land to build on,
to be very careful and check the drainage
Because of that.
I know exactly what you mean.
where we are we get flooded, it floods below us ,
behind us.
high enough that never, have had any problem like that.
that is fortunate.
It is an old farm house
we really like it here.
I like it here.
grew up here.
I have lived other places
did grow up here
this is very much home for me.
It is nice down there.
I liked it when we visited there.
I hope you visited during the winter.
theories is that you always go to warm places during the winter
places, that, I go to cool places during the Summer if I can anyway.
That is the best time to go.
usually nice.
It has been hot,
hot to me in the wintertime down there.
it is nice,
nice area.
had a friend from England visit once at Christmas,
we could not get her out of the what she called the back garden.
Because she wanted to go back with a sunburn.
she went back to the north of England with a sunburn .
good heavens .
Not me .
I avoid the sun .
basically I do, too.
it takes me about four and a half hours our grass.
I try to cover up when I do the lawn .
that is really healthier, frankly.
I have had of problems
I decided it is not worth it.
like to get tan in the Summer time because I think you look healthier.
we are just crazy .
is interesting because you get out in that sun an awful lot.
my sister is sun fiend.
she is five years younger than me,
she is more wrinkled.
Is that right?
I think that is why.
it just makes your skin more leathery.
I think it burns off the,
I don't know the theory, the scientific principle.
it burns something off, the natural oils
or something like that.
the elasticity of your skin, the collagen or whatever they call it.
They say it destroys a lot of that.
you lose a lot of that.
we have really had nice,
the weather,
I can't complain.
We have really had really good weather of late.
when it has rained, been a good soaking rain
it has just been a really nice Spring.
that is great.
very nice here too.
I hope it continues because my parents are coming to visit this evening
I want them to have
nice weather for their visit
that is great.
instead of driving around in the rain.
How long will they be there?
probably four or five days.
that is great.
I hope the weather stays real good for them. And,
thank you .
and, that you have a good visit and everything.
I hope your garden does good.
And the same to you.
it was really nice talking to you.
A pleasure.
good luck in venture.
It is, like I said,
it has been real interesting.
I hope you enjoy it as much as I have been enjoying it .
I am sure I will.
fact, if I had not been preparing for I probably would have been making some phone calls in the last couple
of days.
I forget to.
The day goes by,
I forget to make a call usually.
I am glad you have broken the ice with me because now, start doing it .
thanks, Jean.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
is, that a sport you like to participate in?
Actually I'm a spectator,
I'm a second hand spectator as a result of interest in golf.
My husband likes golf also,
be a fanatic if he thought he could get away with it .
limits it pretty good.
I, have tried to go out and play golf.
He would love it if I would go out and play with him,
I stand there and swing and swing,
I can't even hit the ball .
I can't even play miniature golf well.
I don't either .
there are just some things that we're good at and other things that we're not,
I am very good at watching it on television.
he was really, enthusiastic about keeping up with the tournaments.
He could tell me exactly what day and what time of year and where the tournaments were going to be held, and what the nature of the hole was and,
he's really into it.
he was a good golfer.
instructions at the country club for a while.
golf tended to be so ,
I am not really deeply involved in of the sports.
golf was one that I developed a working knowledge of a lot of the golfers,
therefore I enjoyed following those particular players.
more because of their personalities
than their sportsman .
part of it was the personality and their sportsmanship.
Another part of it was I'd pick one out that was different than what my husband was rooting for
the competitor,
I became involved in following his career.
Right .
I know my husband,
Tom Kite was his fair haired boy.
he thought he was spectacular.
I said, Whoa.
stay interested in him.
I decided Andy Bean was good competition .
Any time they both played, he was just real excited when Tom was, shown on the television,
I followed Andy Bean.
huh .
We both followed Lee Trevino into the Seniors.
he's interesting.
He is.
I like to watch him.
He is a character
not just a golfer,
he's quite a character.
there are some really, really wonderful people in the game of golf who do give wonderful role models.
I think you're right.
I think to have a good role model
I like to watch those skins games.
Do you ever watch those where they just play for a certain amou ,
for each hole they win they get the money
for it.
I think those are pretty exciting.
I myself, really have not seen a whole lot of point to the game of golf.
You hit a little ball,
you chase it,
you go find it,
you hit it again and lose it again.
I know the whole point is to get it in that little bitty hole,
seems to me like if they made the hole bigger it'd be easier.
really .
I sometimes wonder why men like it so much because they get so frustrated
I know.
mad at themselves
when they don't do well.
My husband and his buddies are not very good.
They play maybe once a month or less
they all hit in the low nineties,
they think they're having a really good game .
my husband's average ran in the mid seventies
he wasn't bad.
that is good.
He was pretty good,
as far as influencing young people, I think that one of the sports that you can carry into old age.
You can't play football at fifty five.
it is a good healthy, wholesome lifestyle,
anything can be warped.
I think that that is one of the sports that's a good healthy way move into maturity
Something to stay active at
for a long time.
That's right,
that's right.
don't even take up golf until they're, in their later years.
they can still get good at it.
That's right,
that's absolutely right.
it's something that,
maybe that's what I'll do when I have time later on,
when you're too old to do anything else
Yeah .
go play golf,
yeah .
also something that husband and wife can participate in
you can both enjoy the same sport and participate in separate circles.
you can go to the country club together.
You can play with your friends,
he can play with his friends,
you've both been out and exercised,
you have enjoyed the day.
Or my favorite,
just ride around in the cart with him .
You bet,
you get a lot of exercise that way.
Go somewhere really nice, like Hawaii, and just
I'll tell you what, if
look at the golf course.
if they're not real good golfers, sometimes it is not fun to ride around and listen to their exclamations all day long.
my husband's pretty tolerant,
he's not too bad
to watch.
mine had a very short fuse.
If he did something bad, he's liable to take that club and throw it as far as he can throw it.
He's replaced almost as many clubs as he has balls.
just get so mad, he'd just wham that club up against a tree and break that rascal.
Now my husband has a temper,
he doesn't seem to show it on the golf course.
talk about the other guys he plays with doing that
and how immature he thought it was and stuff.
I guess he's real laid back about it.
come home though, in the hundreds,
he'll tell me what a great day he had, and about this great shot he made and everything (( )) .
I shot in the hundreds,
I made this one good one .
this one, on this one hole .
Did you have to listen to long stories about, on the seventeenth hole I hit it and went this way
for me to,
act nice about that when it goes on and on,
one thing that drawback about it, I think, is the cost.
Membership in the clubs is expensive,
the equipment is very expensive,
requires special shoes,
requires equipment.
There's so many,
they want to play another course a member of
That's right.
and other fees.
That's right,
that's right.
It really is high.
It can get very expensive,
I can imagine what kind of costs are involved if you're going to try to go pro, because you spend hours and hours and hours
they don't give those sessions away.
nor do they give, instructions away.
As a matter of fact a friend of mine asked me if I thought I'd be interested in golf.
I said I don't know,
I'll have to try it and see.
I've always watched it.
he said, fine,
he said, we'll just take you over to the course,
we'll just take you over to the course and get you some lessons and let you see if you like it.
If you do, then we can go golf together.
I get to walk all around a little green field all day.
those kinds of things happen, though,
get a little taste of it
you say, Hey, this is not bad.
you really begin to develop an interest in it.
I am not an athlete at all.
Me either.
I'm always the one that got hit by the bat in baseball,
and, hung my fingernails in the net in volleyball.
I am not an athlete.
Maybe golf is a forgiving sport.
I don't know.
at least you're just com ,
It doesn't appear to be .
you're competing against yourself, I guess, more than everybody else out there.
I haven't really acquired an interest in it,
I'm open to try anything,
kind of the way I feel.
The one thing that is also detrimental as far I'm concerned, my skin is very fair
I'm going to have to golf in the evening
I'm going to have to golf at a time when the heat of the day does not cook me.
I don't think the,
have you participated in anything like that?
a little bit,
we mostly do our newspapers.
we take them to be recycled.
have a pretty nice recycling center, in our city now
we take the newspapers and plastic and glass up there.
They're open two days a week
you can just take it up there and drop it off.
It's kind of fun.
everybody up there looks pleased with themselves when they're taking their stuff in like they're doing something good to,
help the earth, I guess.
a lot of people complain because it's really not convenient for them.
my husband was complaining the other day
he said every time I turn around you're telling me some new rule about recycling
yesterday I was tell him, squeeze the plastic jugs before you take them up there.
You're supposed to what.
Every time he turns around I'm giving him some new rule,
what are you supposed to do with them.
where you're supposed to the plastic jugs.
Instead of taking them up there solid.
I wish that our recycling center took paper bags.
They won't take those.
We like to newspapers in a paper bag, and then carry them up there that way.
we have to bring the paper bags back every time.
Because they won't take them.
Do you, take your papers somewhere
does someone pick them up?
we in.
don't take our cans up to that center, though,
our aluminum cans, we like to take them to one of the places where they pay you for them.
use aluminum cans,
we generally don't have those to do.
it takes us about a year to save up enough to be bothering to go in and do,
Do you, have any ideas on anything that would make,
charge you,
it's a flat rate I think for picking up your garbage.
I know a lot of people it solve the convenience problem if they had curbside pickup
some communities are trying to do that now.
I think that maybe if they only charged for the garbage that you did not sort and have set up for recycling,
charged you weight of how much trash you were actually sending to a land fill.
that would be a good idea.
might be a better way to do it.
then people know that it was going to cost them money to not sort their trash.
that would be a real good motivation for people.
because make monetary sense to them, to say, hey, if I just spend the time sort this out where this stuff can be recycled then I don't have to pay for them hauling it off.
my father was telling me about some program he read about where from the city,
you pay more than just what you would pay for an empty garbage bag
then you don't pay any monthly fee or anything,
how ever many bags of garbage you throw away, that's how many you have to pay for.
that's about the same kind of thing.
that would be a real good idea.
I'm trying to think if there's anything else I could think of.
They are talking about going to curbside pickup (( )) .
Where do you live?
Rowlett, Texas.
Do you know where that is?
I don't know if they decided to do, or not,
I think they said it was going to add either a dollar or three dollars a month to your bill to have them do that.
Although, I think a lot of those programs can operate at about a point,
It seems like they would be able to.
without charging people.
Yeah .
I don't know,
I guess it just depends on how they manage it.
I don't know how much they get when they sell all that stuff.
The center that they've got now where you take your stuff in think that should be making some money.
Since they just have to hire someone to man it a few hours a week.
everything to some waste company that comes and gets it.
I wish that, more of you buy vegetables and fruit and stuff like that in were recyclable.
I don't,
a lot of that's that recyclable steel
I don't know anybody that takes that.
that's true (( )) .
husband likes Pepsi
those cans are steel instead of aluminum,
we ever recycle them.
I think it's a good reason to quit buying it.
now I didn't know that,
going to, buy sodas they're in two liter bottles.
that's what we buy the most of, unless we're going on a trip or something where we want to,
put the cans in a cooler .
that's all I can really think about for recycling.
It was good talking to you.
All right,
bye bye. .
There you go.
What do you think invades your privacy?
people that call on the phone all the time to try to sell you something. try to sell you the and, cleaning, and, roof repair
And enough,
I think it's a waste of paper, the people that always leave, junk mail you just end up throwing it away most of the time.
Probably eighty percent of junk mail that you get something that you don't need.
And the same way with those calls.
What is it,
really does.
Even when you tell them no, they keep calling back.
M C I
what's that?
M C I
it's the long distance telephone company.
see I just say no thank you and hang up.
take a no for an answer here for some reason.
They just keep calling back.
I had a carpet service call up three times,
all within in an hour,
do telemarketing,
I'm very polite
I just say no thank you, and say no thank you very politely
I hang up and,
don't bother me after that.
I think the only thing that really bothers me is somebody contacts me
they try to get information out of me.
Like the
That bothered me.
I didn't feel they had a right to know how many bedrooms were in my house even.
That I think is my invasion privacy because it's the government
I don't understand what their need to know is.
I think that is my biggest objection to anything as far as invading my privacy. If somebody wants personal information out of me,
telephone calls I figure, they don't bother me one way or the other.
I know when I do telemarketing, I'm a soft person,
someone says I am not interested I'll just say fine and back out.
I make very good sales,
half as pushy as these people because, I don't really care.
they're not interested fine.
You know that's it.
You can't force them to be.
I'm not pushing something down their throat that, I don't think is a good item anyway.
That I don't think I could do anyway.
I feel like, movie stars, or
(( portray )) being a movie star
they get themselves in these rag sheets
I think they go too far.
I think that's invasion of privacy.
they follow them around twenty four hours a day.
Yeah .
you know they do Ted Kennedy.
Of course, he's breaking the law all the time,
it's a different story then.
who cares about Ed McMahon.
He's probably hasn't done anything interesting in the last thirty years that they've been on the air,
he has a chauffeur.
Maybe he drinks
he never drives a car either,
it's not the same with Johnny Carson.
(( classification )) invasion of privacy is trying to get personal information,
and putting it falsely out or just bombarding me for the answers.
This to me my invasion of privacy.
Anytime I can honestly say no, or, throw the paper away, or,
you can always write to, and stop the junk mail.
That I've done. Because I don't want junk mail anyway,
I to them when it came on the air,
I don't get any of that bull,
works by the way.
the telephone doesn't bother me because I leave it half the time, on, answering service anyway,
unless I'm home,
I figure I can turn it off one way or the other,
I think that's the only bottom line thing that I dislike.
it does,
other than the U S Census,
what was it.
carpet place that called me three times,
that I felt was invasion because it was the same carpet place, and called me three times.
I mean one should be sufficient.
That's right.
if people don't use the telephone,
don't know when the police has their project going
I don't know when the other ones have their project going and when they want to pick up down my street for things.
That's the only way I know.
you have to have the telephone,
you can't,
hard to screen out all the calls that you don't want.
see there's no way of knowing,
the problem.
the product I sell, I sell mostly to older people which can't get it in a normal public situation.
The only way we'd get to them is by telephone.
most of them like it because the company I work for is nationwide, and, reputable
they know that hey, we're backing it, one hundred percent.
if we were denied the right to call people up, these people would never be able to get it.
Because your normal companies that offer it, do not offer it in the amounts that we do
they'd never have it then, at that point.
Because we offer it in a very low, quantity.
don't know what to do as far as that's concerned.
it is nerve racking.
I mean it is nerve racking to have the telephone,
at least, as I said, you can always say no thank you .
I gather you get a lot of telephone calls.
some days it just rings off the wall.
In other words you own your own home.
I think that's where they hit most of us.
I own my own home.
you just know about what time,
some days I hate staying home because the phone rings all the time,
I don't know,
I haven't been able to figure that out.
Something else to do about it.
When they call up and want to say, tell me this, this, this, this and I'll give you a free something or other,
My answer is no thank you, I don't need it.
they say, don't you want to know what's free,
I s , no .
If I have to give them so much to answer the questions to get fifty rolls of film or something like that, they're taking something away from me
I don't like that.
Yeah ,
even if, I guess it's for coupons, have a survey they run
one of them is supposed to be a smokers survey
the questions go a lot farther than having to do anything with smoking.
they ask you to your income level.
I think that's,
whether you buy a T V dinner or not, I don't think it has anything to do with,
Are you ready to start?
Okay .
Have you recently bought a new car Catherine?
I just found out that my car was thirty months old,
it doesn't seem like it's that old.
Seems like I just bought it.
It's an eighty nine
I bought it, in, eighty eight
the last car we got used car.
I really don't prefer buying a new car.
I like to let somebody else pay for that .
I know,
I really will do that the next time,
I buy it too.
mine was a year old,
we bought it for very functional purposes,
we bought a station wagon.
We wanted an economical car
to operate,
we wanted one that could carry a lot of equipment.
we chose a Nissan Stanza wagon.
I've never been sorry,
that's wonderful.
however the need for that
kind of car has changed now,
while it is still good,
and it's quite serviceable,
and I'll drive it until it no longer is reliable.
And probably then some .
I'll spend a lot of time praying over it before I give it up.
I think that I would like to,
could have the car I always wanted
I would buy a Nissan Maxima,
I'm sold on Nissans.
foreign cars
do you feel though, craftsmanship is much superior to the American abilities?
Is that how you,
I have never,
its reliability.
Its re ,
Its reliability.
read all the CONSUMER REPORTS and things,
they just run head and shoulders above the American made cars.
If Ford was a head and the shoulders above it, I'd buy a Ford.
Isn't that a shame.
I a Ford Escort that absolutely needed (( taps )) the day we got it.
My word isn't that sorry.
That's sorry.
I mean it was ready for the graveyard.
My word.
I spent as much on that car in twelve months as I spent for the car.
that was just trying to hold us,
getting out of that was a used car.
it was an older car,
Escort is supposed to have a great track record
as far as sales.
not deliv ,
you get stung a time or two,
you say, no thanks.
No thanks.
That's right.
I just trusted the CONSUMER REPORTS and the auto,
reports inst ,
had my son who knows a lot about that, study them thoroughly,
he gave me four choices of cars to buy .
An Escort definitely was not among them.
In fact, there wasn't an American car in there.
the Nissan came
we bought the Nissan for functional purposes not what the CONSUMER REPORTS said we should get.
it served our needs.
later on that he studied showed that, Nissan was head and shoulders above the rest that we were looking for.
rather have a Maxima than a Cadillac.
I really would.
It's not necessarily prestige,
it's comfort.
there's a lot of features on there that are desirable if you're going to pay that kind of money for a car.
Who makes that car?
M ,
is their location,
is it, Asian
or is it European
Nissan is Japanese.
it is Japanese.
I didn't know.
if I couldn't have my luxury Maxima
then I'd buy me a fancy little red (( C R X )) sports car .
Okay .
of us have two sides .
I guess so
that's true.
Now what about you,
if you could have the car that you wanted
what would you get
if I had the car I wanted.
Probably, let's see, I like the looks of the Lincoln Town car .
See there,
don't know the performance of it.
That's a,
Ford product,
I would get hung up by my boot straps if I ra ,
if I ever mentioned the Ford product in my family.
I tell you that's sad too because there one time Ford was the best,
that was made.
Really was.
really have not seen,
a lot of the American cars parts are produced in foreign countries and assembled here or vice versa.
Can I put you on hold for one minute?
Of course.
Thank you.
that was one minute.
They hung up.
Okay .
at any rate do you have color preferences
what would be the features that you would be looking for?
the comfort of a large car that the security of a large car.
and the luxuries of a large car.
color preferences,
I think I would opt to go with a bronze.
Which is probably closest to gold that you can get .
We like the stuff that glitters .
There's nothing wrong with that.
I think probably which doesn't mean I would be,
I would prefer white.
it's more visible at night.
it's cooler I believe,
when you're driving in,
the interior,
I don't care about the interior just as long as it's not black or red.
if I had the little red (( C R X )) ,
I guess the interior would have to be black leather
I'd have to live with that.
if I got the (( C R X )) it would have to have a real good sound system in it because I'd want that too.
I'd just go back to my teenage years and just throw all my experience to the wind .
can you, hang on again hon ,
Thanks .
I've got the phones for lunch hour.
Just don't mind me if I bounce back and forth.
That's okay.
you like to listen to, a lot of music,
it talk shows.
to listen to, I listen to K C B I a lot
I will listen to the news traffic and those things at work.
if I'm going to be traveling in that car for any period of time,
I want some real good classical music.
I love classical music,
you just can't enjoy it unless you've got a good sound system to produce all the,
All the,
all the characteristics of the instruments.
That's true.
I do love classical music
it li ,
Do you listen t ,
contemporary classical.
Do you W R R?
Sure do.
W R R and the Oasis are the two that I listen to,
more than anything else.
I do like them.
I'd like to have a compact disc player in the car.
That would be,
Those are nice, aren't they?
something that I would really like.
those are nice.
Those compact discs,
really are good for cars because they don't melt,
they don't warp.
there's nothing in there that can wrap around rollers or anything.
It seems like a really good answer to portable music,
that you can choose.
do a fair amount of cooking.
I love having guests to dinner.
I probably do that about once a month.
I usually prepare something, depending upon the guests,
I like to prepare chicken, pasta or a casserole.
How about you?
those are things I like the most.
I like fish and chicken the most.
most of the cooking I do just comes out of a can.
catch a fish and I prepare it.
broil it and put lemon on it.
that's about the way I prepare most fish.
I made scallops the other night,
that was unusual,
basically, I found a recipe to make it in the microwave
around a little melted butter and microwaved them for about nine minutes.
four and a half to five minutes
you had to add sesame seeds and bread crumbs on top,
very simple, but very nice.
if you are looking for a French recipe, that was good.
Sesame seeds and bread crumbs.
Sesame seeds and bread crumbs.
my husband liked it.
unfortunately scallops are one of the more expensive, fish items.
look for them to go on sale at the grocery store .
one of the things I love to do, eat out.
How about you?
Do you have any particular places you like going?
there's a restaurant called String Bean on Spring Valley and Central.
I like that,
home cooking.
I have been there.
it's like Black Eye Pea,
I do not think it's a chain.
the other restaurant (( )) Black Eye Pea.
I do not really like, chili places or, Judge Roy Bean's,
I do not like greasy places.
do not feel like they are very healthy,
I always,
feel like the home cooking places, the healthiest meals.
I tend to have chicken fried steak when I to them.
got, chicken marinara the last two times.
how was it?
what I like,
of chicken
I get green beans and mashed potatoes.
I get teased by my family a lot, because, I like experimenting food
sometimes I go for things.
my father teases me about gourmet cooking.
Which is not always true,
the thing about experimenting with cooking or anything else, is that some of the experiments fail.
that's true.
the last time we had some, friends over for dinner, I tried a dessert that sounded in the recipe
it was just a total bust.
I was,
sorry I did not have ice cream to fall back on.
brother tried to make, a bunch of things, way back.
He tried to make bagels one time.
my that's ambitious.
we took some
we had, German Shepherds at the time,
we took some and gave it to the dogs,
the dog it like a milk bone
he never did finish it.
He just barely made a dent in it.
then he tried to made grapefruit citron one time.
It's, supposed to be candy.
did not turn out very well,
it was,
It all the acid of the grapefruit a kind of a candy stick,
see I am not,
that's interesting.
One of the things I do not make is dessert.
my husband accuses me of putting him through dessert depravation, because, we have ice cream, or something like that.
that's why when I this experiment for the company we had about three weeks ago,
it was just a total fiasco.
everything else was fine,
that was a fiasco.
you have to put eggs and everything, don't you.
just about.
also don't have much of a sweet tooth,
I can dessert for the most part.
Use about half the sugar,
make everything diet.
do you cook for yourself
do you cook for others?
Mostly, I just cook for myself.
when I was single, my favorite meal was baked potato.
It's easy,
that's for sure.
I never put anything other than a little butter on it,
a little cheddar cheese, sometimes I would grate that up.
I always put cheese on them.
it's amazingly satisfying.
it's mostly starch.
it fills you up
the cheese has to make up for whatever the protein you get.
not say it was nourishing,
it was satisfying.
it really is.
Then you have to make a salad
(( )) I never really enjoyed cooking for myself,
I ate very simply.
I think that's one reason I like having people over, because I could try things.
I must be a frustrated chemist or something like that.
cooking is a little bit being in a chemistry lab.
Except you get to taste the product instead (( )) .
and have an explosion.
Fill them up
blow up.
Sometimes it blows up anyway.
(( )) .
once had old boy friend over dinner when I was recently staying with my parents.
I had this wonderful recipe
you were supposed to make toffee like substance for a pie by, boiling evaporated milk three hours,
it does turn to toffee inside the can.
yeah .
the only problem was, when I opened the can, it just flew all over the place.
It was on the ceiling, on the walls and me.
the boy friend thought,
supposed to be there at six o'clock, not seven o'clock,
just at the time all this happened, the door bell rang
there he was.
I had to have my, my dad sort of entertain him ,
for awhile while my mother and I scrambled to clean everything up.
Did you let the can cool off?
I really do not remember,
that was about ten years ago,
I just remember how embarrassing it was.
it since, and several times before
I never had that problem,
just that one time.
was a gourmet cook,
he was kind of (( pushy too. ))
Acted like, he came from San Francisco
he had a very sophisticated taste.
really wanted to impress the heck out of him
, it was a memorable evening anyway.
(( as far as, ))
do enjoy cooking
I was awfully glad I was given this,
Are you ready?
She didn't announce that to you?
quite hear all of it.
I see.
That's fine.
I think, that's pleasurable for all of us, if we choose the right restaurant .
Right .
what are your thoughts on dining out?
really choose restaurants more for the quality of food than anything else.
Not for the price?
a little bit
for the price,
I think that as far as quality of food goes expensive places I've been
had really the,
The be ,
the worst quality of food.
a lot of places that even like much.
best food I have ever had was inside of a place that we drove up
I was like, I'm not eating in there .
Are you nuts?
we went in
wonderful food.
My word,
it's like mama in the back kitchen, huh?
I'm serious.
place that we went just recently
was to Atchafalaya.
that's not right.
That's not right.
That's not right.
What's the name of that restaurant?
(( Where at? )) .
The Hari Krishna.
(( Oh. Kalachandji's )) .
It's all vegetarian,
was just fabulous.
my husband was aghast because I ate turnip greens and liked it.
where was that at, near your,
a Hari Krishna run restaurant.
is it in Dallas?
Is it in the phone book?
I think so.
It should be.
Do you know how to spell it?
it starts with a K.
(( Kalli )) , K A L L I?
K A L A, I think, C H A N D.
That should get you close enough be able to find it.
I think it's, probably listed in the restaurants,
just fabulous food.
What about fast foods?
Do you have a preference if you were going to,
eat a fast food?
we like Arby's.
You do,
As far as,
like Arby's?
fast food goes.
See I don't like Arby's.
because they use everything they can and make this into pressed whatever.
insides of the animals, heart and liver
form it,
they make it look like roast beef,
I said, no,
thank you.
Someone has been lying to you.
What they use is roast beef.
that's not what I heard,
That's what,
from that was supposed to know what they were talking about.
my goodness.
I'm surprised.
My dad worked for Arby's for several years.
Unless somebody is trying to blackball them.
that's happened before.
we're, we like Mexican food.
And stuff like that.
How about the health food, restaurants? like this one
it's probably not advertised as such, is it?
A health food?
Health food, restaurants that,
name one .
I'm not sure what you're talking about.
like, I can't really think of any off the top of my head right now because there's so few and far between.
restaurants that cater to the people that are very health conscious. as far as their cholesterol levels and fat content and, the amount of calcium and so forth that are in each product
they list them.
Now there's one restaurant that does that
it's called Rodolfo's
over on Preston Road and Royal Lane I believe.
they very good food over there.
I don't guess I've ever been to anything like that
I really don't have anything to compare it to.
They do the fat,
It would be good I think,
I don't know how expensive they are.
It sounds like that it would probably,
it was pretty reasonable.
was around ten dollars for lunch. Okay,
is kind of high for lunch I guess.
For one person?
Oh .
A bit .
you were served by maitre d's men waiters.
won't really be interested there.
if you're looking for a nice,
I feel like paying, five dollars for the food probably and five dollars for something that I could get along quite well without .
I guess to impress somebody taking somebody that you hadn't seen for a long time and wanted to show them a good restaurant.
It's a special occasion,
maybe that.
type thing.
I could see that,
then maybe.
now the Red Lobster I found is very nice at lunchtime.
I like the,
Because they're,
the seafood had it, the broiled,
they have lunch specials that
beat that price, if you went to a cafeteria.
Probably that's true.
I know specials sometimes are fried things,
I had the,
that you can't really get away from the fried,
I had a broiled chicken breast
it was excellent.
It was a marinated, broiled chicken breast
it was exce ,
why would you go to a seafood restaurant to eat chicken?
it was,
That's one of my husband's pet peeves.
He doesn't understand why somebody would go to a seafood place and eat either chicken or steak,
I've never had catfish either in a restaurant because I'm from the north
that was a no no.
I haven't gotten over that from the north.
catfish is wonderful.
I know they say that,
that is,
they've got all these caution signs now on fish
I kind of stay a ,
Because of all the pollution in the lakes and the,
everywhere. there isn't any safe haven anymore for fish.
especially, in Wisconsin and Michigan they say, no, buying of our fish.
That's too bad,
because I'm probably not going to stop eating it .
best brand of chicken to buy is the, Pilgrim Pride because they don't use all these hormones to (( remote )) , unnatural growth in their products.
we have to be on the lookout if we want to stay healthy.
That's true.
on one hand I see that
on the other hand, my older sister
remembers when, at one point they were taking radioactive wastes
and storing them in tin barrels which guess,
had a half life of, five years if they sit empty on dry land.
they're putting radioactive waste in it which reduces it dramatically.
they take these things that will rust
they throw them in the ocean which is going to speedup the process even more.
I'd like to get ahold of some engineers and knock their heads together if it would do any good.
then they wouldn't think.
They were floating around
they shot holes in them to sink them.
this is before I was born.
we're taking thirty years ago,
this happened,
That's right.
Everything we eat.
to a certain extent.
You can't get away from it
I think,
everything we eat should have a label on it .
To some point,
some things I think (( )) we can't avoid for health purposes and some things that we just need to like,
this is not in my control.
to death
I'm going to get over it and just go ahead and eat as healthily as I possibly can,
Becky, you know, even if you lived off your own land, that you would have to put caution signs,
Do you use credit cards a good bit?
I do,
I wish I didn't .
Before I got married, about the only credit cards I used were gas cards, because I didn't like carrying,
the cash with me all the time,
I just never wanted to get into the hang up of using credit cards and
having all those bills hanging over my head.
In fact, I remember getting my first MasterCard,
the only reason I got it was, there was a while
years ago when you couldn't cash a check
without a MasterCard or VISA
that's why I went ahead and got one.
It was a mistake .
have a whole wallet full of credit cards.
I don't use them very often.
at least one gasoline credit card a week, and try to use a different one, so that, I those active.
I have a half a dozen department store credit cards,
use those if I need to run in and buy a dozen pair hose right quick
or something like that,
just enough to keep them active.
My biggies are the VISA, MasterCard and Discover.
for the most part, I had used those for charging airline tickets, where I can pay for those, you could
make the transaction over the telephone,
I fly Southwest a good little bit, which means I can just run that card through the machine.
That's right.
it saves a lot time.
that's what I was using it for.
However, we very pressing financial family crisis, which said you have no alternative,
you must have the money to do this with,
you do not have any other options
I charged all three of those cards up,
right now I am paying and praying.
I know how that goes
that's exactly what we've,
I have to say I have been thankful for them, because there were times when
huh .
it was just like that
when we had to have the money
we had no way around it
the only way to do it is go get, an advance
on a card
huh .
you were paying for it,
I never did,
it's one of those I'm glad it was there.
I never did use it for an advance.
Most of my charges were, medications.
I see.
Didn't have cash for the medications
MasterCard or VISA
a lot of times you can get by using those for,
different labs will
use those charge accounts for,
Do you find now, though, that even some doctors won't?
I've found some doctors that say,
I was so used to doctors or medical care places taking credit cards,
so many of them don't anymore.
huh .
I have not,
like I said, that was just one period in my life where that was critical.
I don't generally charge.
I say I need a checkup in six months,
I kind of set that aside
and just pay for it.
I'm reimbursed on insurance anyway,
I can handle, paying for it and waiting two or three weeks.
Getting into a credit card fiasco is easy.
it is .
It is easy,
it's very difficult to get out.
I just cringe every month when I see those interest charges.
I know.
I say wow,
ought to go to the credit union and borrow the money and pay this off.
Big deal,
I'm saving two percent.
the interest, even though it bothered me, it didn't used to bother me so much, because, of course, you could list it on a Schedule A
you got all your interest,
towards your tax
now they've messed that up to where it really is a financial burden to have to pay it.
it is easy to get into a credit card problem,
think about young people that think,
there's kind of that feeling of hey, it's so neat,
I have my first credit card
they just don't understand that you still have to be able to make the payments.
it's not just paying back what you've charged,
That's right.
paying that and half again.
That's right.
you send in, fifty dollars,
you're going to pay twenty, twenty five in interest charges.
That's right.
You only get half of that paid for the principal,
I'm looking at three or four years before my balances are cleared on those charge accounts.
amount goes down, that will free up more cash where I can continue to make the larger payments.
as long as I don't have a major disaster where I have to use it again, do that.
Meantime, though, I'm not building any reserves.
that's frightening to me.
Anything that I could be put aside into savings is going for interest on those cards.
That's right.
That's frightening, too.
I, my husband is in business for himself
I work for T I
he doesn't
I've kind of got my fingers
I've learned when you're in business for yourself, you don't count on something until it's happened
once in a lifetime cases,
after ten years he's got two of them
they should pay through next month,
we're both just looking at each other every night going man, that will pay off both of our MasterCards,
And, just in one lump,
that's the only way you can do it, is to have a big chunk of money
it's like you say,
you pay forever.
I'm really looking forward to that.
you need a big chunk of money
you need a large reserve
That's right.
so that if you do charge on that account, you can make a single lump sum payment.
those are very handy
if you have the reserves and you can make lump sum payments, sharp, good
no problem
I agree.
you're living on the other guy's money for a while.
That's right .
I can promise you that those credit card companies are going to ride high on my money .
I know
it just irks me.
I say my gosh, I had to work three hours just to pay the interest on this,
I've got three cards.
I've lost a whole day of my life
I know.
You're like
to interest.
what am I working for today .
that just blows my mind.
house is paid for,
my car is paid for,
I've got some home improvements,
even the payment on that doesn't equal the payment on one of those credit cards.
It's incredible.
Boy, I wish I could say that my house and,
my car is paid for now.
It was wrecked three weeks ago,
you see again
the credit cards came in handy.
I had to have the money to pay rental car, pay this, pay that till the insurance company pays back.
That's right.
I think
that is a good, healthy, safe use
of credit cards.
Because you know that's coming back to pay it off.
I went to a seminar,
they said don't ever use your credit card for consumable items.
You only use credit cards for investments.
I (( said )) for crying out loud, if I had the money to in ,
if I could do some investing, you'd have to invest at better than twenty percent earnings in order
to pay for the payments on the credit card.
That's right.
That doesn't make a bit of sense to me.
I thought
That's right.
God dang, where is his pencil?
the smart half was don't pay it for consumables,
put it on a credit card
That's right.
is the smart half.
I can remember before we had kids, we did that a lot,
it was no biggie
because we could pay it off,
while after kids, and you're paying child care and other things, all of a sudden it's not so easy to pay off,
we cut that out real quick .
do like having them there.
There is a bit of security in having the credit cards and knowing that in times of crisis, they are there to use
you have to have a very good sense of saving,
common sense to
huh .
get yourself in trouble.
You also have to have that willingness to commit to that
because you're committing a good portion of your life and income when you do it.
Pat, did you vote in the last election?
Most assuredly.
you did?
Yes ma'am.
I've voted in every major election since I turned twenty one.
that's great.
why do you think,
Don't always
people don't.
vote for somebody.
I sometimes vote against somebody .
That makes sense too.
I think that a lot of it is,
I know that my late husband was simply indifferent.
He didn't feel like he had any say.
There was too many people, too many other votes.
For example, he'd say, look, you and I see different sides of the fence.
If I go vote you'll cancel my vote.
I said, I sure will.
He said, I just won't vote.
I said, Then mine counts,
Then does,
because you could cancel mine too.
that's a lot of people,
just indifferent .
I know that
I've moved around a lot.
In the past, three years I've had three different addresses.
Each time I change jurisdictions or whatever.
I just haven't,
graduate school or whatever,
I haven't kept track of it.
I voted.
this past time I didn't.
I voted it for the presidential election,
then I didn't vote
I guess, in the two year for, some legislators and things
characteristically, local elections
typically those people who vote are those who feel very strongly about an issue.
If I do not feel very strongly about an issue, then I see no reason to go vote.
that's probably one reason why I voted in the
the last election, but not really this one
because this one really didn't matter that much.
it's probably true.
listening to you'll find out that everything matters,
then you could go crazy worrying about everything.
they also say that most people vote their local politics, local is more important than, national
that's the way you get to national
that's the way you make changes about
your neighborhood,
I definitely think so.
I know that I have been involved in preparing and carrying out a lot of the local petitions that take place.
Even something so simple as getting a street light in between
lights on the end of the block.
it makes a big difference when it's the difference in having a child run over
that's true.
in the dark.
it took a close call to wake us up and cause us to take
that kind of action,
that's completely unnecessary.
In another particular case they were trying to put in a, senior citizen's home
an area very near our neighborhood,
if you just cross that major street, the character of the neighborhood changes,
it's less savory.
I felt very strongly about that,
those people simply did not have access to safety, to security
they were at risk.
it was for elderly people who lived alone,
they were going to put a cluster houses there for them.
even clustering together for the elderly does not ensure safety.
most now,
that's true,
did was to, in my judgment, make them,
Prepare them to be,
easier targets
easier targets,
did get a petition together
we very strongly resisted it,
to my neighborhood
it was on the,
Right side,
right side of the street.
of the tracks,
I think that much more comfortable there.
Did they,
I haven't seen too much crime in my neighborhood,
although we have a good crime watch program
very serious
just across the street.
you think,
I know that Texas's last gubernatorial, election probably brought out a lot of voters.
seem to,
I guess, having a woman governor
running against a man and whatever.
I don't think it had to do to with woman running against man.
I think it had to do with dirt running against dirtier.
that's it
it was a dirty election.
People were calling each other, names and every bit of the trash,
dirty campaign.
It was a dirty, mud slinging campaign.
what's funny, up here, a lot of Virginia news
I guess, Senator Robb and Governor Wilder
are active right here,
they have some type of wire tapping problem
going on,
the people in Virginia are complaining,
Robb is married to Lynda Bird Johnson
the people in Virginia are complaining that using Texas politics in Virginia
they're really complaining big time,
they said that We don't have that type of trashy politics up here like they do in Texas all the time.
of course, that's not all the time.
We've had some pretty
you were getting slandered, I think,
We were having some pretty healthy
campaigns that were based on issues there for two or three of the gubernatorial races
historically, Texas has had mud and muddier campaigns
that eventually, the better people have sensibilities
they vote on those people who are least likely to do damage.
Unfortunately, that's not always the way it should be.
You don't want to vote for the person who is least likely to do damage.
You want to do the one who can do the most good.
Do the most good,
that's true.
I guess that's why,
I know that, I'm previously from Pennsylvania
Dick Thornburg who's now the attorney general
is going to run for senator
because, John Heinz, a senator from Pennsylvania, died in an airplane crash
I know that they're expecting a gigantic turn out to landslide Dick Thornburg into the senate
because they don't like political appointee, or whatever
they're almost expecting landslide
right now
that election.
you see,
that's very negative motivation
isn't it
isn't that too bad.
We really could use a little positive motivation
hey, we think this guy can really make some changes
we're going to support him.
That was true in a lot of cases a couple of the older sixties campaigns.
in Texas,
was that when, you,
I'm talking about national campaigns.
even when John Kennedy was elected, there were so many strikes against him,
there were people who believed he could make a difference.
that's not to say what has transpired or what really was,
I'm saying
that's how it was perceived.
that's, right,
that's perception,
that's true.
that was a big, turn out
it was people going to vote for, I think, more than those who voted against.
that in my own, area of people, whom I knew and how they were going to vote, they didn't go to vote against, a politician as they did a little bit later when Nixon was running.
They went to vote against the the two evils in certain cases.
I think that one was one that
you had some very strong feelings among people,
they voted their convictions.
I think that also happened with Ronald Reagan.
He was
You're right.
he was landslided in
people really saw that was,
There we go.
what do you consider the most important benefit besides salary?
Boy, don't know.
tough one.
changes changes what, I'm getting gypped on
That week,
a couple of changes health plan
I guess right now the one in my mind is health insurance
If I step back I'm not sure say that.
about you?
in sort of a weird situation.
I'm a graduate student that,
I don't have that many benefits per se .
sort of get,
on the other hand, one of these days you'll be out looking for a,
My wife has a real job
I can see from her angle.
I think health insurance is real, real important.
I've, I've discovered.
even in my case a pain in the neck about it up here
the university makes me buy a small,
they have what they call the mandatory portion of their health insurance
they offer insurance to everyone,
then the basics that are major medical, force you to buy here.
I'm covered by my wife's anyway,
I still pay them a hundred dollars a semester
for, mandatory.
that's sort of annoying that I'm paying for something I'm not getting in that case.
I'd rather went to something else.
the benefits you're getting for that hundred dollars a semester, never use because you just use your wife's.
it turns out that hundred dollars sort of entitle me to go to the university health services here, use them
it turns out that I do think physicians there.
through my wife's H M O, we've registered for them as our primary care physicians
we go there anyway,
if they were to bill, which, which I believe they don't,
if they were to bill the H M O for my business, they could, theory, be getting paid twice for the same thing.
they're not, thank God.
otherwise, I would imagine, good vacation important, although I don't know if that's really a deciding factor for many people on a job.
I don't,
the, the, that, that's negative about, I am in that, five years civil service
there they, they accumulate it as hours per week or something like that hours per pay period or something,
it works out as I remember basically to,
you start two and a half weeks or something like that,
goes to four weeks I believe,
I've been at T I now, coming up on fifteen years
is going to go to four weeks here
that's really,
is a negative, probably not a deciding factor,
I know my wife,
I think she gets, about two weeks a year, I guess
they're pretty good about it if she wants other time off.
They, usually let her,
the thing is flexible they are for comp time kinds of
kinds of things
that's the,
That's hasn't made all that much difference is because civil service, that your vacation in increments of one hour
there wasn't, anything as far as comp time,
you tend to dribble away a week of it a year, an hour here
a couple hours there kind of a thing.
whereas, here are free enough actual vacation time per year probably much different,
that's reasonable, I think.
health insurance,
I think going through changes everywhere to,
gone through a couple years ago here where they, will cover you much better if you go to their designated hospitals
now they're in the process of developing a list designated doctors,
that just routine visits, they will compensate much better for, if you go to their designated doctors.
my assumption is that, that will not include my doctor since, he keeps real busy without having
Weigh all sorts of other things.
I think, I was watching something the other day about that on, a news special or something like that
they were saying how in some sense that, that's good because that makes health care affordable for everyone and the cost of everything and all insurance
in other cases it's actually bad because it winds up people, much less of a choice in who they can use and stuff like that
I think in the much bigger picture than, to some extent hospitals and doctors have some, fixed amount
you don't work for somebody that's got enough clout these rates and make this agreement
then, you're not covered by that,
the added costs get passed on to you,
one of the phrases I use is it's moving towards, private socialized medicine. That, in terms of the negatives always heard in terms of socialized medicine, you have no choice on go to for a doctor and things like that, where it's the government that decides,
Least off, who decides.
it's same, the effect is the same as the,
get left out of the loop more.
I know that their, idea is that, you have to pay a bigger share, be more careful about money helping hold down the costs
I don't know,
the health care, I, find although been lucky enough to never have any big problems, the cost is not big factor.
know if the doctor's doing the right thing to make me
get better.
You want to know that when you pick a doctor,
could pick one who you could have some sort of a
feeling about.
do you want to start?
know could be about reorganizing the trial by jury,
I think it works better than many other systems, like having a judge decide.
I can't think of many alternatives that could be more fair than having twelve people decide, although it's difficult because they all have to be
agree, that they should all be unanimous?
. I don't,
in, like they said, lesser, trials, lesser convictions, do you think that they should be all unanimous still?
I don't know,
real strongly about that.
If the,
the thing is, though, didn't think even if it was a lower conviction, to have jury .
you request one you can.
I think,
making it unanimous sometimes more people get off.
I don't think it would convict any more people.
we have so many people already,
the jails are already overloaded.
the thing is they stay until they all are unanimous.
if one is determined going against the other eleven, they all stay until everyone agrees.
I don't know if it would leave anyone getting off more unless someone just gets tired of fighting, just gives in.
if it's,
what if they never agree.
have to go back and do a whole new trial
they have to stay in until they all agree
Agree .
I don't know,
I'm not sure if they go, to twelve new people or what they do exactly,
I do know for sure that all twelve have to agree before he can either, either he or she can either go free or to jail, either one.
that maybe on the lesser crimes that aren't too severe, that's a little stringent .
Especially because there's twelve.
The thing about it is, I think jury selection, too,
a lot of times, the lawyers are able to pick and choose who they want on the jury
they can sway them that way, too.
just it.
I don't understand.
You're supposed to, go in never heard of the people before or anything,
I don't understand with racialism and the way religion is and everything else how you can get people that are impartial to it.
I know.
you really can't,
the other thing is when they have the sensational trials, how they get people who aren't swayed by the news either.
then, one of the questions they asked is, should it just be decided by a judge
that's kind of tricky, too, because a lot of positions the judges are in, can't be fired,
till they retire
sometimes they're pretty partial in their judgements, too .
I agree.
I don't think it should be left up to the judge alone.
Not only, that they have to stay in there,
how many times have you heard of judges being bought over.
I know.
I, I think, I think the end, the judge has the presiding, vote.
I don't know if it's the way it is in real life,
I've seen it on T V where the juries go one way
the judge finds it obnoxious
he completely, goes the other way.
I'm not sure if the judge is allowed to do that in everyday life or what.
I think in some cases they are.
they know they get to decide how severe the sentence is
if it's,
that's another thing where they have the power,
maybe juries could be less than twelve people
would that be more fair or less fair.
Maybe there should be more than twelve people .
I don't,
my God.
If there were more than twelve, can you imagine how long they'd be sitting .
I know.
I don't know.
I don't, I think it's as fair as it can possibly get,
I just think it's really har ,
some cases go on for years,
That's true,
I've never been on jury duty,
they have to keep going and going and going.
And to work.
don't know how it could be more fair.
Course, I don't know.
It could be,
maybe they should be asking someone that's been trial before.
I've never seen one in real life either
that much about it,
that we have pretty fair system compared to other countries.
I don't know how we could make it more fair.
I really don't.
The unanimous vote is questionable, though.
many cases get juries might
want to be reviewed, too.
I don't know if you should really have a jury for infraction.
I'm not sure who gets them .
I don't know anything .
I know.
I don't know that much about it either.
guess maybe if they'd go and they'd ask someone in jail, how they can make it more fair for them or not,
then again, maybe they should be there
that is fair.
I don't think anyone's going to come up with a better way.
whoever came up with this was pretty smart because it was pretty, unique
I think, when they started it.
how long do we need to talk? .
Do you know?
I think we can hang up anytime .
what do I do now?
Do you know?
I don't
wait for someone else.
what else to say,
it was nice talking with you.
It was nice talking to you, too.
Bye bye.
how do you feel about for drugs?
basically I think it would be a good idea myself.
think if somebody's not on drugs, they have no reason, to be afraid of it.
I do think that there has to be some controls,
I don't think one test positive should, be, the end of it,
think they should test more than once.
it's refreshing to hear somebody,
that has a similar opinion as mine.
all these people that are against it they may not even be on drugs.
call it an invasion of privacy.
huh .
I don't see that.
To me that just doesn't sound like a valid argument because this company is paying you good money that you're working for
That's right.
they, I believe that,
they have the right to know if you're using dangerous substance .
There's so many jobs that,
really have other people's lives in their hands or even their own life
how can you do anything about a problem besides if you don't know about it?
I think
(( Right )) .
there definitely needs to be some control to it.
I guess it is possible to have a false positive report.
I agree that, needs to be well thought out, sane approach to,
how to administer that program.
Just because something can get mixed in the mail,
the chemicals could react incorrectly what you would expect them to.
somebody's test gets mixed up with somebody else's.
those things do happen.
I certainly wouldn't want people's lives ruined
the company that I work for, has just instituted for all new hired employees,
they submit to a urine test.
huh .
say that they, they've also implemented random testing.
(( )) , it hasn't happened to me in the couple of years that, it's been in progress
fully agree with it
all these memos going around about folks that are disgruntled and feel it's an invasion of privacy,
agree with you.
if you feel it's an invasion of privacy, probably got something you're trying to hide .
you maybe need to look for some other type of job to do
that, doesn't require the testing.
not an invasion or privacy.
I think a right to know life maybe's in jeopardy or,
Or, the quality of their product.
they're doing for their company.
those things are all affected.
If not immediately, it certainly does eventually.
I think that's where a lot of the problem is at first.
It doesn't seem to, bother the quality of work
eventually it does.
because it usually requires more and more of that substance that you're misusing
to get the same effect.
Course, I feel the same way on the AIDS problem.
don't think that's an invasion of privacy,
that's the only communicable disease that they're not allowed to test for ,
it's destroying a lot of
people's lives .
and one of the few that they don't have a cure for .
it's destroying people's lives
think that person, plus anybody in danger about it and be aware of it.
(( )) .
I don't know.
kind of hard to
I guess the gay movement has had a lot to do with considering an invasion of privacy.
Of course, that's not supposed to be what we're talking about today, I guess.
Yeah .
I kind of get off on a tangent here.
do you work for, Texas Instruments?
I do.
down in central,
I don't know how familiar you are with Texas,
called Temple.
Which is right in between Waco and Austin on the freeway.
that's probably why,
my brother did live in Grapevine, Texas.
That's near Dallas.
We're probably about two, two and a half hours south of him.
It's pretty hot down there probably.
Yeah .
about two inches of rain in about three hours, yesterday.
did you really?
that's great.
cooled things down somewhat.
It's getting more humid now,
need rain real bad up here.
huh .
really getting dry.
Yeah .
It's been about three weeks since we've had any.
It's kind of at a dangerous level here.
People hauling water,
it's getting real bad.
How about that?
I hope you do get some rain up there.
. So do I .
I ,
I can't think of anything else,
guess being in agreement
kind of tends to limit the conversation
I can understand .
I know if somebody is using drugs and doesn't think there's anything wrong with them, I can see them objecting.
there's a lot of people that think that there's nothing wrong with (( )) .
One of the things I found interesting,
funny that you mentioned that,
T I is pretty much a worldwide company
we have manufacturing plants all around the world
including some places where the use of certain drugs that are illegal here are not illegal.
they don't have to submit to drug testing they do here in the States and some places abroad.
I'll be darn.
I thought that was kind of interesting too.
the different cultures and that
too, .
from a quality standpoint, illegal doesn't mean it doesn't affect you the same way.
I'm sure it would have to affect you the same way.
can't think that would make any difference
whether it was legal or not,
would still have to affect you the same way.
if you're going to do business in another country, you've got to respect their rules.
I mean the trade off.
Oh yeah.
by their laws.
The same way our people have to go by their laws when they're over there.
That's why a lot get in trouble
because they have to follow their rules
some of the countries are very much against drugs
you use them, you pay for it .
(( )) .
Usually with you life in some places.
a lot of them.
That's right.
is it thumb or a finger?
from the Middle East.
Is that where it is?
Iraq, Iran, in that area.
I thought, wow .
Yeah .
that's quite a deterrent .
in Saudi Arabia, using, alcohol and drugs and something like that, you get the death penalty.
it's pretty strict over there .
I guess, so many freedoms over here we sometimes forget about how
people tend to
great out country really is.
take the first amendment out of context.
I could do anything I want to
you can't stop me,
abuse it
is what they do.
I don't know.
glad to see more and more companies implementing the policy,
let's talk about schooling.
contacts do you have with the public school sy ,
I have a boy
he just went into middle school,
I have a girl,
she's in, grade school,
I have a little boy who goes to,
they have something just before kindergarten,
it's called Early Childhood,
I have a young
a young boy in that.
have a lot of children the school system down here.
I think we have excellent teachers here.
I am really,
the teachers work with the students.
I've not been so, happy with the schools themselves, I guess.
son and daughter were in the same grade school
before he moved up to middle school,
it was just packed.
it was fire hazard if we had any kind of assembly there with parents.
it was just a real problem.
we had to do a bond issue vote to take money and either have students bussed to different schools if that's what the prefer to do, or to, school to be built, which is a good idea,
in the meantime, the school still has lots and lots of kids in it.
I think one thing is that would,
maybe we don't have enough schools,
secondly, when we have enough schools, sometimes we can't get support for the teachers that we need to pay them to keep good teachers.
got a little different, contact,
got son that graduated from high school last year
and another son that's sophomore this year
my wife teaches kindergarten here in Richardson.
in general, think one of the reasons that to live in Richardson came here schools,
I think that Plano and Richardson in terms of the, things seriously wrong with the public schools are not nearly to the extent
We see through country.
a big part of that is just the demographics,
the population in those schools typically, people that very much value the education and support
school systems
I think that's right.
although there's problems,
when I was, when I was going to school,
I grew up in Iowa,
in my family, school was certainly valued,
if I was ever in trouble in school, I was also in trouble at home
Yeah .
even more so,
I think that part of it not exactly with the schools, but with the, with the,
The home,
the culture that value the education and doesn't value the schools and doesn't support,
I think that's right.
what the schools trying to do.
It is so hard with a family system, either divorced just one parent
that's true.
or just li ,
if both of them have to work, even that is hard situation
for the children, have a supportive system around them to make school work for them
I think it's real important that the parents work with the school,
I think what you said really a pinpoint, though, that the student and the family life really adds or detracts
what's happening in the school
what about your wife,
is happy at school
(( )) .
works very hard as a kindergarten teacher.
I bet she does.
two half day classes.
has, on the order of twice as many students as
as the teachers in the higher grades
background child development, and
and, so forth,
kindergarten is as high wants to teach,
she's teaching rather than something else because that's the jobs that are available and that, the schedule matches, with our kids and things like that.
the ...
had something to do with usage of personal computers,
talking about computers this morning.
I'm a firm believer having lots of them.
I'm sitting at my desk now with four machines in front of me.
four machines around you,
boy, got me beat.
I have Zenith here
at home I have a Commodore
and a Zenith,
my wife has an A T and T Twelve Hundred, I believe it is.
Good grief.
What do you do with all those?
on my Commodore I mainly study lottery numbers, would you believe.
I have written some, programs in Basic
whereby I can select any number of, drawings
and from that extract the numbers that have appeared the most
I have another program in which I can look at the cyclical, appearance of these numbers
to see if there's anything that's consistent on that.
I have to add all the numbers I want,
it generates a complete set of numbers so that all combinations are covered
this is what I do most of the time,
That's what you do on machines
On my Commodore
on your Commodore.
on my Commodore,
of course I have, word processors,
I write all my letters
it's wonderful,
my, thoughts in my head
come in bursts of about a paragraph at a time,
I get
them all down,
naturally on a computer if you make a mistake, who cares,
you can go back and, correct it very easily
that makes it very, very nice.
I get all my thoughts down and go back and clean it up very, very readily.
how about you, Charles?
do an awful lot of preparation of documents,
I use word processors fancier programs,
graphics programs and simply make all of our slides,
some of them I do on a Sun,
some I do on an X T
maybe we don't call these personal computers,
I started out with, an I B M P C after they came out
may I ask where you work, sir?
I work for the government in Washington.
I know you work for the government,
I just wondering are you an (( )) ,
or what section of it,
in, in an obscure part of the defense department.
that's my type of work, too.
I work at the Applied Research Lab
on campus,
field is underwater acoustics
there's a lot of things we can do with computers into, studying how, things vary in the water,
and, taking advantage of them, and so forth,
it's a field,
am retiring at the
are you, are you also a professor,
do you
just research.
associate professor,
I'm a full time researcher
it's, been a very, very interesting career, believe me.
I can believe.
do when you stop, take all your machines with you, or,
the ones here in the laboratory obviously going to stay,
I have similar machines at home.
I would consider doing some more consulting when I get home
I have a very, very busy extra life anyway.
I'm also a musician,
I play in several symphony orchestras
I run a concert band,
C and
so I have a lot of external, interests
I do want to get into computer work, because obviously the world is going to be controlled
run and operated
by computers in the future.
There's no doubt about it,
it is really taking over,
the amount of work that we're doing and the depth of things that we are studying can basically only be handled by computers, because, it's so much involved
it sounds as though you're probably more aware of that than I am, because, I don't get to use it in my daily work as much as I would like to.
Here again
let's say I'm starting to getting ready, in preparation for retirement
basically what I'm doing is slowly getting rid of my things.
For many, many years I had a full size acoustics, study laboratory
I could take recordings perform experiments
with them and so forth,
that's gone now,
I'm sort of out of business.
as I say, I worked with (( ))
fellow named Steve Blazey
was the fellow I worked with for many, many years
he is now retired.
it's been an interesting life,
computers have come in towards the latter end of that.
I wish we had had computers in the very beginning.
It would have been,
Seem to have the topic already on tongue there
why don't you go ahead and start.
Isn't subject auto repair,
Yes, sir.
for tonight?
That's great.
The reason I say that is pretty timely because just tonight I went out and changed the oil in my car
that's something I like to do and, can do with now the sophisticated auto,
cars we have today with all the computers and everything.
not a whole lot you can do without the equipment and electronic analysis that needs to be done on a car,
I do like to get out and tinker with a car
it's something I can do still.
Do you enjoy working with your car?
I sure do.
done don't even remember what it is.
I've had to have oil changes done myself because I live in an apartment complex,
where we are not allowed to,
work on our vehicle.
We can't even wash our vehicle,
that's too bad.
the last thing I can remember doing wh ,
I had a sixty six Mustang,
that was all right because like you said that was pre technology days, I guess.
you could do a lot of it yourself still,
I didn't tinker too much with the engine.
in pretty good shape,
my main concern and what I enjoy doing the interior.
pretty shelled,
it was fun.
It was taking apart and, ordering new carpeting and,
did you install all that yourself?
that was,
I bet that was a lot of fun.
a little.
We sanded down insides of the door panels.
And painted,
those and,
Do you still have the car?
I sold it.
that's too bad.
A sixty seven is about the, year for the Mustang car.
it was fun though.
It was fun.
really enjoyed it,
I was surprised the availability of parts yet.
still get factory original parts.
you pay a premium
you just don't get them.
I went ahead and got, Japanese made duplicates or wherever they were made,
prefabs and all that stuff
don't think that there would be, quality difference.
I don't know.
notice the difference, did you?
there was.
I had heard rumors that it was because they couldn't duplicate certain patterns, exactly.
glove box was just a little,
little wider,
little harder to fit in,
the carpeting, stretched a little too far.
I had to cut some of the sides down.
But little things.
one of the screws the
you could get four to lineup.
The fourth one you couldn't get to lineup no matter what you did.
thin ,
I bet that was frustrating, wasn't it?
it was
the end result is after you put panels on, nobody sees that you got one screw missing in window regulator anyway
It works just the same,
is something I really enjoy doing. working on our car too,
just changed my tonight
I enjoy also working on things like the brakes
in fact, just two weeks ago I helped my neighbor out on his brakes on his car.
either if it's a drum disc brakes, I enjoy working on those kind of things.
Disc brakes don't seem to give me too much problem
honestly don't have the tools for the drum.
I know you got, certain spring lever that you got to have or some,
Spoons and,
some spring pulley or something that you got to pull that spring back over onto that notch.
you do .
my dad has got all that
helped him when I was growing up,
I don't have that stuff now,
because of the drum brakes I, don't have any choice but to take them in.
that's true.
hurt every once in a while to have them done professionally too
I was helping my neighbor out
one of his drums needed to be resurfaced
I don't have, of course, the equipment to do that,
he took it into a shop and had it fixed that way.
it is true,
I did have a sixty four Ford truck that I wish I still had and loved to get inside that and tinker around with it and work with it,
because you didn't have all the extra, extra stuff,
that's in there now.
I'll tell you what.
thing about them is, everything was standard.
You didn't have to worry about finding a metric anything.
Boy, I tell you.
what do you think are the major social changes?
What age, if you don't mind me asking.
thirty one.
I'm in my
right .
early fifties ,
you should take my word
you're young .
seen a social change,
It's definitely,
for sure,
came from California where social change is
Every day?
every second.
social change in California means it takes another two or three minutes longer to get to work.
I can believe that .
eighty two,
I guess that's when it was.
Between eighty two and eighty five, it started out taking me an hour and fifteen minutes to get to work,
it became, an hour and a half, to, some days, two hours to get to work.
That's social change.
social change.
what do you think the major social change?
Right now.
that's a tricky one.
I'll let you go first.
I think probably the big major change is the role of women.
I think, one, the women, in the work force.
And I think the fact that they're becoming, more, not necessarily politically inclined,
they're more apt to be in political offices
I think, we've made great strides
in that respect.
I think that thirty years ago, when, I was newly married, family was very, very important.
Then I think we veered where the family was not as important a unit.
I think now it's revolving back full circle.
I think
the family unit is becoming much more important than it was.
I think probably for two reasons.
the number one is, women wanted to get out of the house.
the second reason everything costs so much more that if you don't have, equal rights so that your wife gets equal pay, you can't make twice as much .
That's true,
that's true .
I know that economically, a wife almost has to work anymore.
yet, I'm also noticing, in the areas that I'm working and stuff, more and more women are wanting now to stay home with the children where fifteen years ago
they didn't.
they wanted children,
they still wanted to be their own person out in the work force.
women now wanting to stay home
more, at least until the children are up to, school age.
I find that very interesting
it's sort of reverting back.
I've, I've found that, too, where the wife is married
wrong word.
Where the wife has gone to school,
and gotten a degree, spent five years out in the work force, found, their husband, either at college, or whatever,
still, after five years, it's like, first kid
they're out of the work force for another ten years.
I think most of those people are still out .
I think that generation, they're all at home right now
we won't see them back for another two or three years.
meet anybody whose children past that age when they've been away for a few years.
it's kind of different.
it is.
I note that I had, taken care of my grandchildren recently while my daughter and her husband had been out of town.
I do not envy these mothers
or these fathers that have children that they have to rush home from work and pick them up at day care, get them through their homework, get them to their soccer practice
get them to their piano lessons.
that's tough.
I don't envy these young parents .
I'm an assistant Scout Master
it's like,
parents, even rarely see their kids for weekends, which is, kind of rough, too.
That's true.
That's true.
Especially now.
I don't know.
running into these, women that are wanting to have their children at the age of thirty nine, forty, I'm thinking at the age of fifty two, you're crazy .
You're going to be doing your worst running around when you're fifty .
you're absolutely nuts .
know two women
let's see,
one of them's forty nine
I don't know what her age is,
I know somewhere in that hairy age of half a century up there.
boy, I'll tell you,
these are go gettingest, happiest people I've ever met.
you can be go getting,
you can also get gray hairs and have a nervous breakdown .
I'm thirty,
I'm getting gray hairs already .
I just know would absolutely exhaust me.
Maybe it's because it's my grandchildren
it's not my children.
Maybe that's,
let me see, I've got two children.
One is,
both preschoolers,
one is two
one is, four.
this is my first year off,
I've always worked, from the time that they were little
I decided to hold off on my job for a while and stay home with them and spend some more time with them which I hadn't been doing.
I think that's wonderful.
My children are in college.
I teach school
I teach, middle school age children.
I see a lot of, variation in what happens when kids are at home.
I have taught school ever since my children were little.
the advantage of teaching school is your hours are closer to your children's
your holidays are, too.
teaching, I think is good career to have and still be able to spend a lot of quality time with kids.
that's what I was doing before,
I was teaching for Richardson School District.
it just seemed like it took a lot of my time with them being so little.
it's really hard.
with them being as young.
It was much, much harder when mine were young.
I really didn't have that much of a choice because my husband was trying to finish his, college work
and his Master's degree
and so forth,
it was a matter of somebody had to have a (( )) job.
That's right,
that's right.
that's what was kind of we were,
really didn't have to work,
I felt like I really wanted to work.
like, boy, I was sure missing a lot
they were growing so fast
, it's like, do I really need to work,
choice was there,
I really didn't have to
, so I did have that advantage there,
it's different staying home too,
it certainly is.
It's an adjustment to make, also.
I think that, we need to spend more family time together children today.
we made a point to spend a lot of quality time
the activities that we were involved in were the activities the kids were
involved in, through scouting or
anything like that
we participated.
we always made a point to have breakfast together and supper together now.
Wow, that's great.
when, the kids were in high school, it was harder to always have supper together,
we did always have breakfast together.
had supper together as much as possible,
when it wasn't feasible,
when it wasn't feasible, that was understandable,
we've always tried to spend time to talk and, have some
we sat around the table,
we didn't sit in front of a T V or
Wow, that's great.
that kind of thing.
I think that's been important, because we do have a close family
even though the kids are basically, grown, they still like to sit down at the table and us all eat together when they're here and
have spoken before of, they want that kind of, situation for them when they marry and have children.
kind of goes on.
They do what they see,
That's right.
They model
with the dysfunctional families today, I'm sure, schoolteacher also, you see
what happens to these kids
when these families never communicate or they're dysfunctional as far as the, second families, one parent families or
all those kinds of problems that they have
you see them magnified in the children.
Plus, you teach middle school,
I'm sure that,
boy, boy.
I taught early childhood
I had the little ones.
I saw it there, too,
it's, it's, kind of an eye opener.
It is.
It is.
teachers realize the value of quality time with children
I think we make a point to do that.
I think you're right.
all the time, the outcome of not doing that
I think if we weren't so interested in child care, then we wouldn't be teaching anyway.
I wish we could reach more of the rest of the world .
I think, the major problems in education are not what's happening in the schools,
it's what's happening in the families.
I agree,
they expect us to, miracles at school and fix all the problems and take over the roles of the parents as well as that of the teachers
you get to a point where it's completely impossible.
I agree.
know exactly what you're saying .
you just get more and more frustrated
yet, you feel for kids.
You do the best you can
what do you consider an invasion of privacy?
I was just now told that's what the topic was
I guess invasion of privacy, to me, for example would be unauthorized use of credit cards
for example.
I guess recently one of the T V stations here, ran a series of, news casts on unauthorized credit card usage and how easy it was to get a person's credit card numbers.
It's very easy.
And use it
I was quite surprised at that.
I guess I can consider myself fortunate that, it never happened to me.
I've never,
I don't know what I'd really do if it did.
I've never had that happen to me either.
What do you think about places,
I was in Michael's the other night and charged something,
they asked for my home phone even though, the charge had been approved.
What do you think of that?
Does it bother you to give it?
not really because I'm listed in the phone book.
If I was the type of individual that, had an unlisted number, think I would be hesitant to give it.
You know that now have a, I believe it's a federal law that you do not have to give your phone number on charge tickets.
One of the things that upset me when I lived in California was, they did a lot of things with Security number.
Security number,
As a matter of fact, they even went to the point of printing our Social Security number on your driver's license.
they would not cash checks unless they had your Social Security number,
we had our Social Security numbers imprinted on our checks.
I was really, unhappy about that situation.
I think that was an invasion of privacy.
I can see, where that was.
don't mind my phone number and address or work phone being given, when I have to cash a check.
I don't see any need for it when I'm charging something,
a person that has the guts to say, no,
I'm not going to give it to you, either .
One of the biggest things, I think that's going on in this country right now is the selling of, mail lists and things like that.
recently purchased some magazines, U S NEWS
and FORBES magazine.
every since that day, I have been inundated with, subscriptions to this, subscriptions to that, this news letter, this investment letter, even to the point of people calling me at home.
prior to me ordering these magazines, I never got those kind of calls.
I discovered with, charge cards, I feel like that I don't know whether it's the stores themselves that sell the list or whether the, credit report bureau sells it,
I get catalogs from people I've never even heard of.
I know they have to be coming from my charge cards,
From list,
From some list, that knows that I have charge account Neiman's or something
then I'll get catalogs that, are within that range
that I would never order from
tired of that.
look at all that junk mail,
I think of how inept our post office is and how that's taking up
All their time.
all their time to sort
they're not even paying full postage.
if you did away with some of that, our postal service might give better service.
I think the general public would be, tremendously upset if they knew how easy it is for, let's say the criminal individuals get access to people's records, their credit cards
driver's licenses, checks, things like that.
I don't think anybody really knows what to do about it.
Computers caused a lot of this, I'm sure.
let's face it,
computers can be gotten into very easily know with all, if you're, so inclined to, have the smarts to be able to tinker with something like that.
and have a basic knowledge,
they're very easy to get into.
To tap into a system.
Seems as though they are,
and, which is scary,
our lives are on computers.
I don't know,
the calls of an evening trying to sell me something.
Fortunately, I been inundated with that situation yet.
We are constantly, it seems like.
I don't know why.
either wanting to clean our carpet, sell us storm windows,
Okay, Jerry,
I guess tonight's topic is about recycling.
I'd like to tell you first of all what's happening in our community
All right.
here in Plano.
Right now we have a pretty nice recycling program where a lot of the recyclable materials can be picked up collection agency or city along with your garbage can.
you can put out newspaper,
you can put out glass,
you can put out aluminum cans,
you can out certain types of plastic material
that is on a roll out effort right now.
Not all the citizens and the people in Plano can go ahead and, participate right now,
that will be rolled out to everyone, I hope, in the next year or so.
those that aren't participating, they have the specific drop off sites where you can take glass and newspaper and aluminum.
I think, overall that's excellent opportunity
I hate to see our landfills being filled up and, growing bigger and bigger and bigger where they are becoming a big problem for the people that are living today, but for the future also.
I was read ,
How about your community?
My community,
that's cute.
I live in a place called Dye Mound.
Dye Mound?
Or Dye Community.
it's not a city, not incorporated,
my nearest neighbor's about a half a mile at least,
I can't even see their house
Sounds like a place where I grew up .
the wilderness. Literally.
I like it.
give you an idea,
it's three and a half miles of dirt road to the concrete,
to the asphalt,
we're out there.
do some interesting recycling things.
I'm building our house right now
I'm going to incorporate into my, garage area a weight activated, crusher.
when I drive the car driveway in the afternoon, will just drive it up on a ramp that actually puts me on top of pressure side of a, hydraulic cylinder.
the weight of the car will crush,
what's ever in the disposer.
it's not my wife.
let's hope not.
You can in trouble for that.
I thought use it as escapement type thing.
I don't know if you're familiar with that operation,
what you do is you just build up the pressure
you go over and release it
it's quite similar to a hydraulic jack, isn't it?
Very similar,
it will be, drive up on the jack,
won't go down.
until you release it.
Until you pull the pin,
All right.
I think,
I have another, recycling method I use.
You know all that junk mail you get?
I sure do.
The glossy paper that says, buy this, and send off for that and
you have won and all that.
anytime they send me a return envelope
I put all that stuff back in the envelope
plus the other stuff that I, happen to gather up.
like I say, we live a way
when you throw trash away, you throw it in my yard.
I don't like that
I don't do that.
I take it
it back to them.
That's excellent.
I've had four companies actually stop mailing me stuff.
if a lot of people did that, then we wouldn't have a lot of this junk mail.
That's a great idea.
I hadn't thought about that
we might be able to incorporate some of that.
One thing,
I think one of best ways to the recycling problem is to eliminate non reusable items.
For instance, I saw a thing on, NOVA, the other day.
This guy has designed
Whatever he makes, it's all out of the same thing.
plastic, it's all out of plastic.
If it's metal, it's all out of metal.
he's a engineer, designing stuff.
that's a great idea,
that's a great idea.
reusable materials
assembly line into your actual scheme of product operations is
is the only way to really do it broad scale.
Make it financially, attractive to recycle
somebody will find a way to make money at it.
they will.
there is a guy in Dallas,
that's all he does.
He collects trash.
that's a full time job.
out for cardboard.
I've found out, too, that, a couple years ago,
we've always been recycling newspaper for the last twelve years,
at one time we could get a pretty good return, with the Boy Scouts.
We could take and collect the newspaper,
you a news person?
I really am,
listening to the news and getting as much as I can. Although, I'm a full time student
I work full time, too,
not full time,
I work quite a bit
, I mostly depend on the radio, on the way to work.
to listen to national public radio, all things considered.
great show.
I like to listen to that and catch,
sometimes I don't get the current events, Because that show kind of has feature stories that might not directly deal with, some important issue on the day.
current news and, the hard news
there is not really enough of it there.
that's right,
that frustration, too.
Yeah .
end up switching stations from time to time.
you like N P R s, programming?
in general.
watch a lot of C N N
and C SPAN.
subscribe to three newspapers.
I sort of can't get enough of this.
travel elsewhere, I'm often amazed at the local papers how little they have.
h ,
Of events
and national events.
Dallas, newspaper situation?
, we have big newspaper situation.
we used to have two newspapers up until, last Sunday
one of our major papers just closed down.
They closed shop, and said, we can't put any more papers out,
we're done.
that better paper
(( )) ,
I thought so.
more effective paper as far as I was concerned.
it got to the news, and gave you the dirty facts pretty quick and easy.
which I like.
I like to save the editorial information or politically, weighted information, different section.
I like just to what's happening
pretty quick.
I feel that the other newspaper,
is the one that's still here.
The TIMES HERALD is the one that closed up .
MORNING NEWS i , is okay,
you have to wade through a lot of editorial garbage as far as I'm concerned.
many times it reflect my own opinion
were to look at the front page of today's MORNING NEWS
MORNING TIMES would you see things about what is going on in Europe?
that's the problem.
you see Troy Aikman's knee surgery on the front page,
Whoever Troy Aikman is.
quarterback Cowboys.
you know what I mean
is, local news really a lot of times my life one way or the other.
I guess it's current events, but not the kind of current events that changes the world.
yeah .
Not something be interested in ten years from now by any means.
about you?
I guess in Washington, D C you guys have several papers that are pretty
pretty effective
A lot of them.
don't you?
rather like the WASHINGTON POST.
I also get the NEW YORK TIMES and the WALL STREET JOURNAL.
each of them covers different things
in different ways
if I only looked at one of them I on the world.
have a question.
the WALL STREET JOURNAL,
kind of gathered lately that, maybe their information is not just only related to business.
a correct assumption?
is certainly true.
have articles,
a few days ago they had nice article on Einstein,
theory of relativity.
that started on the front page ran page inside.
these are feature kind of articles.
the bulk of the paper certainly is about business kinds of activities.
there is some very good other articles
you'll find JOURNAL.
Do you find that you're, disappointed or pleased with, the performance of network coverage of news?
I wish it were in more depth.
that doesn't mean to say longer,
just more facts would be nice.
C N N was, was pretty good during the war.
they a unique vantage point doing that reporting.
All right.
exercise ?
as a matter fact, I work out in the mornings.
I belong to Presidents.
I have got a routine for every morning of the week
I don't work out on Saturday or Sunday
a combination of, running and weight training .
They set that up for you.
just, joined on my own
I have been thinking about getting with counselors just see what, they might have to offer
as far as, alternatives.
I pretty much, worked on my own routine.
what kind of running do you do?
They have got the track on the inside.
I run one mile on Monday, Wednesdays and Fridays
on Tuesdays and Thursdays, I run two miles.
after that, I work out with weights.
just aerobics
I work out with free weights.
I mean the running.
It is really the, aerobic work out part.
mile in about eight minutes or less?
about seven minutes.
get, out of breath.
I do .
a pretty good clip
I am pretty winded by the time I get done.
it's not pushing it real hard, like, if you tried to make six or something like that.
could probably go faster,
then I would wear myself out .
I wouldn't be able to work out anything else.
How about you?
don't run much any more.
I did when I was in school.
Right now I just lift, weights and do push ups and sit ups
I, jump rope a little bit
that is about it .
lift any heavy weight,
they are about a third of my body weight.
I see.
do you just try and keep them, I guess, firm and,
I play the trumpet
the, the more upper body strength, the easier it is to play.
that is true.
You have to do a whole lot of sit ups
I hurt my neck, about three years ago.
you really have to build up around your neck and your shoulders to keep from, hurting yourself when you play high.
I see.
do it correctly,
it is like an exercise in itself,
a lot of people, strain themselves doing it.
I see.
you are part of a band?
I play at Church.
I see,
I see .
I use to play an instrument when I was in high school,
it wasn't the trumpet .
I was just wandering if that was what it was or something.
I think,
huh .
do you have any plans of maybe running more when the weather gets nicer?
the weather is nice except for when it rains,
in Dallas.
I keep thinking about it,
that doesn't mean it gets done.
mostly jump rope more.
I use to do a little bit of jumping rope, when I was,
a while back I was more into basketball
I could do a lot of jump rope and other jumping exercises to try to build my calves.
it has been a while since I have done that.
I do a toe lift and squats
for that.
you know accustom your legs to the kind of strength that you have when you are running for a long time.
They tend to tighten up you have to do something
at, great length of time.
that is true.
I have noticed that,
it also builds too much mass if you just,
I lift weights with about the same curl weight as I do the squats with.
then it doesn't bother me very much.
That is interesting though.
I have been thinking of changing,
I have done the same routine for almost two years now
I am thinking of, changing it up.
that is why, I was thinking to talking to one of their counselors and seeing what different exercises they could get me on to, get out of the routine.
I have heard that, you get locked into a routine then you are going to get to a point where you just stop developing.
I am looking at changing things a little bit.
started doing more push ups
it has helped a lot
I add sets to it
so that I don't like you said, wear it out.
I don't try to push it so the end
in one set.
clothing at work.
I work as a news reporter,
a lot of,
small station,
this is my first job
I dress very variedly if that's a word.
sometimes I'm shooting and doing photography,
I'll be in jeans one day,
another day I'll be on camera,
I'll be in a suit
another day I'll come in
I won't know what I'm doing,
I'll wear a pant suit
in case I have to shoot.
it really varies.
I try to dress very comfortably.
I don't really like dressing up at all.
me neither .
wear a lot of makeup or anything like that.
I just,
I don't know,
too much time out of my day,
know .
same here.
I don't mind not wearing any makeup .
I don't mind it at all.
I work at a bakery
because I'm college student.
have to wear white pants and, any color T shirt, as long as it's not a bright color, like a pastel.
White pants in a bakery.
the bakers wear all white .
we wear aprons and have to pull our hair back
What's the name of the bakery?
(( )) .
Italian I guess.
Yeah ,
it's Italian bakery.
I don't mind to wear a uniform, because I don't have to buy,
New clothes and stuff.
as clothes.
that's one thing I would like, is just to sort of have, A I really don't like uniforms
but, just to have something I don't have to get up and decide what to wear.
That just bugs me to death.
I know .
I do that every day for school .
like to wear comfortable things like cotton and baggy things and.
Sweats and.
when I was in school, I was a sweat monster.
Yeah .
All I had was sweats,
when it was time to go out, I didn't have anything to wear.
I know,
I don't have very many dress clothes
I don't mind,
I don't need them yet .
let me see.
I hate shoes.
If I didn't have to have shoes, I wouldn't have them.
bother me,
they're just tedious
to go find shoes for me, it's just,
I don't know.
I wear size nine
don't know if just the shoes I get, I don't like them they don't fit right,
just wish that I could just go without them.
wow, I love shoes.
I always buy shoes .
Just the opposite.
let's see,
what else do I wear?
I'll probably go out and buy a bunch of suits and things, and, where I wouldn't have to shoot and do a lot of other things
I could
then I would be able to dress more business like and things like that,
we're all kind of just out of school at this station,
we're all, still in sweats, really.
it's pretty fun though.
I like the suit look, professional look,
really don't have much of an opportunity to wear it .
I'm going to be a teacher,
I'll probably just wear
clothes, maybe skirts and some.
I like suits with the,
they come with a mini type skirt
and the jacket.
I like that,
that is cute.
I'm pretty short,
I'm five four,
that really doesn't flatter me,
I think it looks good on taller people.
I'm five three
Are you? .
any time I go to the store,
have like two pairs of pants, because I can never find any that are short enough for me
it's just, ridiculous.
Pants, too, I could do without those.
Pants, shoes.
I like the stretch pants, the cotton ones.
those are nice.
They're really comfortable.
Those are nice.
With a baggy sweatshirt.
those are nice.
And, tennis shoes.
My boyfriend's got me these L A Gear.
They're kind of big and hefty tennis shoes.
just a chore to pick up my feet.
Oh .
Because I'm used to wearing the little girl tennis shoes.
The little ones.
I have a pair of those.
I'm used to those.
They're just sort of,
your feet
you don't feel them.
You put these things on,
like exercise or something for your feet.
I have to wear them because he gets upset if I don't.
yeah .
how do people in Wisconsin dress?
Warm this time
this time, of the year pretty warm.
Sweaters and.
I grew up in New York,
I know what warm is.
five pairs of socks and,
sleeping in sweats or long underwear.
My parents keep the house cold .
I pressed one
I guess we're recording now.
as far as spare time, they talked about,
who has any spare time ?
I've got six year old and a,
my baby's one today.
Today's his birthday.
don't know,
I haven't had much spare time lately
had some because I was working for P I E,
they went bankrupt
I've got quite a bit of spare time right now.
I've been making dolls, cloth dolls.
have you?
You sew the bodies and everything?
It's not, any porcelain at all.
you just sew everything up, huh?
I make the clothes for them.
What kind
do they have yarn hair
you can get the little curly hair
at the craft shop.
I made some of them with that hair
don't ask me what the other hair I made,
I made some of them with regular wigs.
did you?
I went to the flea markets and bought, the wigs for a dollar.
Then I cut a V shape out of the back of them
my goodness.
and then sewed them on.
It sounds like you're creative.
They looked really cute .
do you sell them?
I have sold five of them, so far.
have you?
I just have to get a place where, I can sell them
I bet.
(( )) .
How long does it take you to make one?
if I would just work all day long, making the clothes and everything, probably about two and a half days.
Do you enjoy it?
I really do.
I also crochet
I can crochet and knit.
I started an afghan,
it's been a whole long time ago
probably over a year ago
it's (( )) sitting in my closet half done right now,
it's a knitting one.
I tried knitting first,
I don't know,
didn't like it.
didn't you.
then I went to crocheting,
now I want to learn how to knit again.
I en ,
I enjoy knitting.
kind of like that,
I just, like I say, haven't done it for a while.
I do like sewing sometimes.
made a few of little valence curtains in my house, and
things like that.
just finding the time for these things that you
you enjoy.
just bought a serger in December.
I would love one of these.
that's neat.
I haven't done everything on it yet,
just what little bit I have used it for, I really like it.
those are wonderful aren't they.
especially making the seams and things like that got such a professional finish on them.
what I hate doing is the finishing stuff.
It'd be nice to have that.
I like that.
that's neat.
do you have,
I guess you're kind of young,
I was going to say, do you have grand kids or anything to make dolls for.
fifty seven's not young,
my son's, has been married for almost ten years,
they don't have any children.
I just make clothes for my dolls.
how did you get involved in that?
sewing and stuff and decided to buy a pattern and try to make a doll.
you did buy a pattern, and then started from there.
turned out really cute.
you got to have a pattern for the body
you ever seen those bunnies
that they dress?
did make some clothes for one of those
Aren't they cute?
dress one of those.
I have quite a few of them in my house,
most of them I have bought, already clothed,
I did
I did make the dress on one,
I kind of made the pattern up.
the best
bought a bunny pattern one time,
when I sewed it up, the face of it looked like a mouse.
it did?
it was too pointed.
I tore it back apart again,
I haven't tried another one.
You haven't sewn it back up, huh?
I bought a little lamb pattern and the material and everything to make it out of,
I haven't made it yet.
do you do any kind of painting or anything?
I don't
paint, except I stenciled my wall.
I ended up just stenciling a, just a roller shade.
I had a hard time stenciling.
For some reason I just couldn't do it.
people have told me it's very easy.
did it first
I seen her house
I saw how beautiful it looked,
then I decided I was going to do it,
it turned out really, really good.
What design did you use?
mostly flowers
And, what room?
I've done it in all my rooms.
Have you?
I put it in the bedrooms and the bathroom,
Where are you, Bob?
I am in Plano.
Where are you?
I am in Waco.
Is that right?
Right down the street.
credit cards.
My favorite subject .
You mean you use credit cards?
do I.
I bet you used them all up over Christmas.
mostly over Christmas.
I get in a rut with credit cards cause they get me kind of in a vicious cycle. Where you use them a lot one month and then you have to use whatever money you have to pay those off
then your are in debt.
then you have no money,
you use a credit card.
I understand that.
I probably have one of every credit card there is.
Do you use them a lot?
it kind of comes and goes,
I use Citibank, the, Advantage one
pretty much cause you get vantage points for every dollar you spend.
Once a year, I get a free airplane ride that way.
as long as you pay it off every month, it doesn't cost you anything.
that is a good idea.
Is that
That is what I,
that through a VISA?
I got all sorts of credit cards for my business that I use
If I can get away with paying them off every month, it is alright.
If I don't then it gets expensive .
That is my problem.
I don't try and pay them off.
I pay, the minimum.
you shouldn't do that.
I know .
I have got myself,
get out of the hole that way.
myself with all this trouble now.
I pay most of them on time and everything.
It is just the,
I always have them.
it is kind of strange.
Kind of like the federal government right?
Exactly like the government .
Can't never get out of debt.
In debt.
every time you try to get out of debt, the economy goes to pot because people are spending money, right.
Have they put the cap on the interest rates?
I didn't know if they actually did that or not.
I know they were considering it.
Just the people who don't need credit get the four and a half percent.
The rest of the, and me, we have got to pay fourteen and eighteen percent.
Funny how that works, isn't it ?
who doesn't need credit, gets cheap credit.
I would be interested to find out use credit this year. Say in nineteen ninety two as opposed to nineteen ninety one, even nineteen ninety.
it would be amazing more people use it.
I think so
Because of the economy.
That's right.
You have got to use everything you have got just to stay where you are at.
some numbers on that.
I think that would be interesting.
have any, credit union where you work or anything like that?
I have a credit union.
Do they have a Mastercard or VISA card?
they do.
You have got that one.
I do .
I do a matter of fact.
do you work for?
I work for Channel six.
an N B C affiliate down here.
I do a lot of work down in Waco,
lot of, I call on a lot of my business is down there.
Where do you work?
What is your,
I sell metal fabricating equipment and tooling.
Tyme and Mercury and Tempco and all those people
okay .
down there.
Gene He ,
you probably work with,
what is the boy from here? .
You ever work with Davis?
Davis Iron?
Davis Iron Work,
matter of fact I just saw them last week.
And, what else.
of town now?
I live actually in Hewett.
right outside.
You know
that is where Davis Iron Works is.
Do you know Parker Machine Tool down there.
Bobby Parker and,
I don't think I have seen that one.
I am sure I pass by it or something,
I am not sure.
There is a place in Hewett, called,
it is a new company called Prime Air.
That is in Hewett. Just around the corner from Davis Iron Works.
Prime Air.
They make, humidifiers and
filters for air filtration stuff for
hospitals, homes, something like that.
Have you ever been to Marlin?
I think it is Marlin or Mart.
They have, a place, I guess that would be similar to Prime Air.
It is called H G H
or something like K G H or,
I can't think of it.
I can't think of the name.
I will have to stop in there.
through there,
my oldest son goes to A and M.
He is working on his Master's.
The Navy sent him there for his Master's. Mostly in engineering.
once and a while we go up six there rather than take forty five.
That is about the last time I have been through Marlin and Mart .
I don't like that drive.
I make that drive sometimes
we have stories out there
There is always a state trooper down there.
You have got to drive careful.
really .
I know.
Between Mart and Marlin, they will nail you if you go over sixty miles an hour.
are bad at Hewett too. On eighty four.
They are real bad.
That is where I got my last ticket.
of course, I couldn't pay that on a credit card.
I was just wondering if you had had any experience with, the care of the elderly.
I have.
In fact, than a year ago, my mother went to be with the Lord,
we cared for her the last, seventeen months of her life here home.
Aside from, having to, take her to the hospital
those times, she was there in regular hospital.
she was diagnosed having inoperable type of cancer,
the doctor elected to have her, finish out, in the hospice program.
concerned, that is far and above any nursing home, because, elderly parent in question is around their own family.
The, hospice program provides a hospital type bed. it is a hospital bed, and all the oxygen,
stuff visiting nurse at least every other day, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
that's nice.
it's all taken care of Medicare,
it's really neat, F
I wouldn't banish, my old loved one warehouse.
what I basically, view a nursing home as, a warehouse,
It's really sad .
Pardon me?
It's really a sad situation.
(( )) .
I think a lot of people struggle with.
(( Oh )) .
I guess the problem is that the spouse of whoever, the parent is,
doesn't always want the in law living in the house.
Is that right?
that's really sad.
I know.
in this case, spouse and I, are, are, united in this area because,
I guess and grandmother both lived with, her parents, their golden years too,
this isn't just instance.
In fact, her, experiences invaluable
to me.
in fact, I don't know if I could have, held up, without my wife, helping in this,
this, in this case.
my grandmother had had strokes and things, and that to keep her in the house,
they did for a long time. A I couldn't,
tell you how long, until she got, where she had to have complete care,
(( )) ,
they couldn't, keep her in the house anymore,
it was really hard on everyone.
She had to have, twenty four hour a day care.
I don't remember much about it except that there was a nursing home at that time
just a block or two from our house.
put her there,
we all went just constantly until she died.
it was very hard on everyone to see, grandmother be like that,
being so young, I don't remember why.
what was, why she had to go there.
maybe, you say, the care grandmother just such that such mom and dad couldn't handle it.
I do remember that she was, totally incapable of taking care of herself in any way.
they couldn't, they found that they could not
give her the hygienic care and everything that she needed.
then there's almost choice left to her then .
like you say, there is a tendency for people to be abandoned, though,
in the nursing home.
I do remember the other patients there, being real excited when we came to see our own grandmother, because they got some interaction with someone.
In fact, sit and chat with them for five minutes be interested in what they have to say
regardless of what it is.
I guess that's hard on people to up their lives.
If they're busy they don't
huh .
It's easy to abandon people, because we do have the nursing homes, I guess.
If you can afford them.
glad it worked out good for your family.
it did,
the Lord we were able to, have,
I pushed it.
what do you you in your lawn?
Do you do it yourself
do you hire someone to do it?
we've been doing it ourselves for most of the time, find that it's really a little more economical,
the time,
I kind of enjoyed it over here in Texas.
I used to live in Arizona,
it was because I didn't have the watering system
just too much work
and not enough enjoyment.
over here we get enough water as well have the automatic sprinklers,
C and
so it's a lot more rewarding
we do our own out here, mow it ourselves and everything,
our water supply right now is bad.
We need rain badly .
that's right.
on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturday and Sunday, four days a week.
Is that enough during the hotter times of the year?
It was this last summer,
if don't get some rain, they might limit it to not even four times,
we do ourselves and everything,
I do our planting of bulbs and things where I can have some spring flowers
I find that I've been doing a lot of perennial planting, which I never did before
it's been real enjoyable, although I didn't do any this last fall, because our past winters have been so cold,
they'd freeze down,
by the time would come back to life it was supposedly the time to pull things out for the spring and summer planting .
I was getting kind of disillusioned and tired spending too much money on something that was kind of more of a problem than it was rewarding,
I'm going to try to wait now and just do the spring and summer type plantings and
see how that, feels.
We have quite a few roses.
in fact we just pruned them way down,
I just had to replace one of them,
I just bought that yesterday,
I'll probably go outside today and plant that.
I like to have the roses where I can have cut flowers all year long.
those are enjoyable.
I even had, roses on my table for Christmas dinner
did you?
which was really pretty, .
huh .
other than the roses I don't have too many flowers.
I plant gladiolas
those are nice.
those are always pretty,
they get so tall,
bend over so fast
I haven't done much bulbs.
In fact I received as a Christmas present planter that had bulbs in it, that we were supposed to go ahead and water it any time and after it started to sprout put in a sunny window,
it just grew like crazy,
I don't have any flowers on it.
I don't know how long that takes, or
if there's anything I need to do differently.
It's just nice and green right now .
is it Amaryllis?
I'm thinking White Narcissus or something
flower or so.
Do you have a big yard?
not really,
in Plano and most of the newer areas of Texas, they have just minimum square footage for lots, to where you get a little bit of a backyard,
we have a pool in our backyard,
we did plan it to where we have play yard left over,
very small.
most of the houses here, if you have a pool, you don't have anything else in the backyard
that's about the size of most of them.
I guess we're kind of fortunate.
Everyone looks kind of sense of awe, like wow, you really got, some grass back there.
that makes it nice.
it's hot enough here in the summer time that we could have a pool,
we don't have one
they are a lot of people that do have pools around here
have dogs and,
and grass
the cement work
and a little play set we made for a garden.
we do have a garden,
(( )) .
It's just a small one,
we, had lots of tomatoes, and, zucchini
it's amazing what you can get out of a little
it's probably about six, something like that,
it's amazing plant in there
it was nice.
Few cucumbers.
That's one part of gardening I haven't tried yet,
I don't think this yard is a very,
I guess if I had to rate it from one to ten, I guess,
I would rate it a five in the aspect that I wouldn't want everybody to have guns
I think there should be limitations of, semiautomatics.
things like that should not be just given out to anybody.
In fact, I can't imagine anybody having a semiautomatic for what purpose.
I guess, being that I come from a hunting family
I'd rather have some restrictions put on weapons but yet allow hunting rifles, things that people would use for sporting type of, a, activity.
Those would be fine
when you get into lot of the more complex weapons, I would say yes
we need to put restrictions on them .
would have to agree with you pretty much all the way I think.
I definitely think that things shouldn't be limited you said, rifles and
hunting rifles and possible handguns for people who use them to,
for self protection,
people say they use them
personally cannot see any use for them
I can't imagine that.
other than, people who dislike (( )) have some sort of crazed
ambition to high powered weapons or something.
To do massive amounts of killing,
wa ,
The only thing that I can see is the police having it in a case where somebody is, going to kill a massive amount of people or, somebody that's escaping, that's, very dangerous
semiautomatic would allow more rounds to be put out to hopefully catch the person get him down.
think of my family.
they're very much into sporting as far as hunting and also clay pigeons
things like that.
they some shotguns.
They may have other type of, hunting type things,
I figured criminals had to take a hunting gun out to kill somebody, more than likely, somebody would see it,
versus small handgun,
that's true.
that can be, put right in your coat pocket
nobody would see it,
yet, you can't stop people from having, a handgun in their home.
Even if there are small children around, there's,
you can't say people with small children can't have guns
and people without small children that may have grandchildren,
still have these guns
I guess was always taught,
number one, a gun isn't a toy.
I don't know if that makes a difference if the parent sets down to them and say this gun can kill you,
don't ever play with it.
I don't know if that makes a difference or what
I think that cases like that it's definitely, I think if you're to say okay,
we have to get rid of them all because
to do bad, it's saying we're t ,
The criminals would get them. even if they had to go across border to get them.
have them and are responsible with them are being punished
people who
they're saying that people you cannot take care of things yourself or that you're not smart enough to teach your kids (( )) .
How sure the guns are put up as something as
not a toy.
Right .
we had guns all over our house when we were kids
and not that they were laying on the, couch or anything like that
I never had an interest in them,
being in the fact that I knew that guns could kill
I had four brothers and never messed with any type of guns
it was kind of the idea that we knew that a gun could kill and that a gun wasn't a toy
of course , we were quite young
we went through,
the National Rifle, Club
we were taught, kind of at good age, ten and eleven and twelve, to sit down with a kid and say okay,
if you're going to learn how to shoot a gun, you're going to learn how to do it correctly
you're going to learn how to have safeguards and
and know how to protect yourself
yet have this,
training so that kids aren't ,
they have to have a certain respect for it.
grew up in a family
my father had two guns
he used to hunt years ago
he stopped I was old enough to remember.
I knew we had the guns in the house
time my father was keeping them just for protection at the time
my brothers, sisters nor I never, none of us ever thought let's go look at the gun
let's go get the gun
(( )) it was just something you knew was there
was your father's
that was not something you'd with at all
that's thing that should be, stressed.
I think so
I don't know if the kids nowadays are different than what ,
Okay .
the long,
I guess not, not if there's,
I was raised in New York,
I guess up there you all don't have too long of a growing season, do you?
we probably have about three months,
do you do your own gardening?
Do you.
We live on a,
used to be a farm,
we don't farm much,
do have a garden.
See I got mine in,
let's see,
I put in pepper plants this weekend.
I wish I could be doing that .
I got all my little seedlings coming up in the kitchen
I enjoy tinkering with it,
it's pretty hot down here during the Summer,
we hit, a hundred, hundred and two sometimes,
we don't do too much during the Summer, as far as tomatoes and stuff,
You almost have,
like that.
to get started pretty early probably. I guess,
probably mid March, I can put anything in the ground,
beets, and onions,
and stuff like that.
then I have to wait for my,
tomatoes have to go in here in the next couple of weeks
as soon as we're, sure we're not going to have another freeze,
go ahead finish it.
You've had more freezing I think.
More bad weather.
had just a few, that freezes a little here and there,
every once in a while, we get a freeze around the middle of April,
it's pretty tough.
are you retired
I work,
I'm only forty years old.
I have to work,
huh .
my husbands retired.
he's not a gardener.
he's been helping me more,
he really isn't, real crazy about gardening.
really enjoy it,
it gives me time outdoors,
I'm a golfer,
it gives me time outdoors, and time around my house,
I, burned my grass off here in the last couple of days
getting ready to start to the Spring season, and see if I can grow me another nice lawn,
I usually have a pretty nice lawn,
it's a lot of work
get outside,
it is.
my garden too .
just a small garden,
we planted corn last year too, which takes quite a bit of space
didn't have too good luck with it,
had a couple of wind storms,
it really damaged the corn
we didn't get too much corn,
We're going through that,
last year.
we going through the dust storms down here now,
did with my garden, is I have two by six frame that's five by ten.
I have two of them sitting side by side
then I put, a black plastic,
it's really not a black plastic.
They call it (( Wedet ))
I put that down,
I put up a couple of inches of pine moss on top of that
I use black poker hoses that actually oozes water every where
I waste it up and down there a couple of times,
I only have to water about two hours a week
that's great.
it's pretty nice.
Especially during the Summer, it keeps everything wet,
instead of wilting.
usually cover ours.
We did a few different times
(( )) sometimes we've covered with the plastic,
other years we've tried newspapers
our watering from our spring.
you have a spring,
how nice.
We have an old fashioned pipe sitting, that, water runs into
my husband set up a pump that runs,
it runs first down
it stops,
when the water comes up, it comes on again,
we use that to water our garden ,
that's pretty nice.
you actually enjoy it,
Oh do.
I do.
Do you?
I love it,
Get out there on your hands and knees,
and crawl around.
I'd rather be doing that, than housework .
can imagine.
You all have much trouble up there, with insects
I think our cabbages, and broccolis and that we have more trouble with, that type of thing, with
With the worms?
I have quite a bit of problem down here with the squash bugs,
and haven't figured out how to get rid of those yet.
Do you go more for
do you,
I try to,
use insecticides?
I, try not to use any insecticides at all.
I try not to even use insecticides on my lawn,
can't manage.
our lawn, a big lawn we live out in the country,
it's just the
it's just a lawn .
mine's full of dandelions,
Do you eat any of them?
I never have.
I don't know how to prepare them.
does your wife ever make, dressing, for,
it's delicious
it goes real good on dandelions.
I've never eaten dandelions
I've tried dandelion wine
I've never tried any dandelions just to eat.
(( )) use the greens, if you get them when they're young and tender, before they have grown too,
too tall,
they do get a little stringy.
All right.
they're kind of fun try,
throw them in with the rest of your salad sometimes.
I'll try that.
I sure will .
I've been cutting our grass too lately because my husband's back,
he's been having trouble with
wasn't allowed to run a lawn mower,
it takes about four hours to cut our grass.
I'm afraid of the hills
you all are into,
I'm getting on to it,
I just pretend they're not there,
I just go ahead and do it .
you all are into the lawn, big time,
whole section of my house is probably a tenth of an acre
then I have a pretty nice backyard,
I've got enough room to throw horseshoes.
that's great.
couple of other (( )) ,
much space even.
it's nice.
I'm just inside the city limits,
I'm probably a mile, mile and a half inside the city limits,
I'm only a mile,
and a half from work.
you have all the conveniences of,
It's pretty nice.
a city,
the country also.
I have the room outside I need,
I don't really have all the room in the house I need
you never have enough room do you think.
Especially if your into any hobbies or anything.
I have a question to ask you about gardening though.
what are they called,
called, (( rolly polly )) bugs,
that's what my son calls them anyway.
(( Rolly Polly )) what?
(( Rolly Polly )) bugs.
The ones that roll up in a ball.
I don't know what they're called.
Is it a bug,
They look like they've got,
You mean?
A worm?
A cutworm?
Not a grub worm?
It's not like a,
You find them under bricks and all that stuff, where it's moist,
you touch them, they roll up in a ball.
I don't know what they call them.
I'm plagued with those things,
I haven't figured out,
I even called the nursery,
(( )) .
I'm trying to think of what they are, what kind,
they could be.
I don't know.
You find them under bricks usually, and that.
under bricks, or under wood,
if you leave a piece of newspaper in the yard too long, they get in there.
They usually come out at night,
you can find them during the daytime if you pick something up that's (( )) been laying around,
They're not a slug.
Not a,
A slug is actually kind of slimy
these are just,
he plays with them all time,
he picks them up and rolls them across the patio.
They were not hard are they?
Are they a hard worm?
They're not real hard,
They're not a hard (( )) .
They're like a, water bug,
of sorts,
I don't know what,
they're called.
are they black then?
they roll up.
I can't think of what kind they would be.
When you touch them, they roll up.
I'm no help on that, then. Because,
I'm plagued with those.
I can't think of what they are. What they would be.
I think you have a lot more insects down there even what we have.
I think it's a big problem because we're in more of a tempered zone.
freeze down here in January, and February, at the most.
I know,
my brother had trouble with fire ants, and that even.
I got fire,
ants too.
they be can be a real dickens.
you, spray in one part of your lawn,
they just move to,
another part.
you got to,
spray your whole yard,
your neighbor gets them,
he sprays his yard,
you get them back again .
you keep trading them .
we're not doing too bad down here really,
the daffodils are out
Ours are going to be coming out.
Now our cancer society sales daffodils.
have daffodils,
here in the house because of the cut flowers,
they're just beginning to come out and bud.
mine are up and bloomed already
They sure are,
I like them (( )) ,
they're such a nice bright early Spring,
my back flower bed I have, tiger lilies
they bloom in,
late June, mid,
beautiful too.
they are.
They real,
They're beautiful.
nice and green,
up above a foot,
maybe eighteen inches.
They come up real pretty,
every year,
no problem.
We won't have too much here for another couple of months yet.
Is it still pretty cool up there?
do you all have a,
what kind o do you grow up there?
Do you grow, Bermuda or (( )) ,
our grass, like I said is just grass.
We really didn't plant anything.
It's just,
(( )) I suppose maybe you call it crabgrass even.
have Bermuda,
in my yard,
I still have the old standby crabgrass here and there,
It's probably,
Bermuda seems to be,
very pretty.
Bermuda seems to be pretty,
good down here.
We have some people that have done their lawns,
Okay .
They suggested that we, discuss what we think of when we say camping.
like to camp?
How do you like to camp?
I can camp just about, most anyway .
Camping or, motor home is nice, travel trailer, pop up,
I used to, live in the Ozarks and,
liked to go up there and just take a backpack and
strike out into the woods.
You really rough it then.
Do you do that very often?
I haven't done it in quite awhile
since I moved down here.
I used to do it
quite a bit.
You'd have a lot of hills area.
it was real hilly.
That would be really great.
Take a twenty two
go out.
Take a twenty two
find a creek.
That sounds like it'd be fun.
Did you go alone or with a group or,
I used to go with my brother.
We just lived up there.
that's great. Long as it's not raining.
it gets kind of,
used to have one of those little caves you can go back in
get out of the rain.
that would be,
I don't know much about camping in Texas.
I'm in Pennsylvania.
You live in Pennsylvania? .
Yes .
I didn't know they did this.
Are you in Texas, now?
I'm down here at T I.
Most everybody I've been talking to is from Texas,
we're up here in part of Pennsylvania.
I used to be in Ohio,
it's some pretty country up there.
you kind of know what it's like, then.
done, many types of camping.
done tent camping,
we had access to a motor home which is really super great, if you don't want to rough it too much.
nice camping grounds
that have the water piped out
just set it up
the city for awhile.
Just get you away from the everyday things that are going on.
used to go to, Delaware along the most every year.
that was fun
we stayed mostly in state parks
we really enjoyed that.
Tell you what,
I'm losing you.
I said I'm losing you,
maybe phone.
Is that better?
you try to go and take a vacation every year and go out and camp?
we used to,
we don't as much anymore,
we used to.
We kind of slowed down a little bit.
I think thing is when it's raining.
If you get a rainy season and you happen to be camping
then it can be kind of bad.
I know the rain bring out the snakes or used to bring them out in the Ozarks,
That's rough when you got to fight snakes off when your sleeping.
I don't think I would like that.
What kind?
copperheads mostly,
Those aren't too pleasant.
We have some of them around here.
You probably have more there, though, I would imagine.
One year just everywhere.
I don't know what it was,
we had a real rainy spring
it was all year,
there was just copperheads everywhere.
you still backpacked and camped out.
I lived the bottom of a big hollow
we had to pretty much hike out most of the time.
If it rained we were stuck back in there.
Had a four wheel drive.
You just get used to it.
I guess you know enough to look where you're walking or sitting
or whatever you're doing.
a cave problems like that, too.
This cave that we used to go in was little,
it was small
it was more
it was just big enough for a couple of people to sack out.
is your brother younger than you
He's about a year and a half younger.
that's great,
that'd be a lot of fun.
You have a lot good experiences from that.
it was.
Saw a few bears
Did you really?
things like that.
What, black ones?
That would be exciting.
the couple of times it's pretty scary
after that you realize they are just as afraid of you, too.
they're usually more afraid of you than you are of them, usually.
They're on the increase in this area.
I don't know if,
they don't have them up there do they?
The black bear.
do they?
the population's been really up.
had longer hunting seasons than that even to get rid of more of them, because they were, increasing so much.
stopped for awhile
they really made it hard to hunt them.
I don't know what it's like now,
I haven't been back up there in awhile.
really like camping.
must say that, a lot of fun, a lot of memories in that from camping
it's good to get out and smell some fresh air, too.
a lot of work, too
it's, ready and taking care of everything.
really refreshing.
I think we're about to run out of our time.
I think so .
it was really good hearing from you
I hope you get back into camping again, and do a little more of it.
I'm sure, I will.
Thanks a lot,
you have a good day.
You, too.
Bye bye.
All righty.
do you think Russia's still a threat?
I guess I'm maybe naive,
I never did feel that Russia was a big threat to us.
There you go .
obviously the possibility of, was the possibility of war,
I somehow think that war is one of those things that maybe is inevitable,
I don't look at it as a threat in the same sense I think this question was meant.
What about you?
I think,
you ever read the book NINETEEN EIGHTY FOUR?
you know, how, continents that were always fighting with each other
you could picture it as being Russia versus the U S
the whole time
what they would do is they would get their prisoners and kill them as soon as they got them because the people there could realize that they were the same themselves,
the prisoners of wars the same as the people living in that country.
you didn't want that to happen.
to me, it had always been that way.
I mean what happens is, you have a government, right,
this government controls everything, right
you have the people inhabiting the country
these people have nothing to do with the government itself.
these people are the same as you are.
what goes on is that every time somebody attacks a country, it's not going to be within the borders of the U S or Russia itself.
Like I was telling people, I'm really mad because the whole thing in the Middle East this was going on.
were announced to be a separate country.
yet, government that's in Moscow told its army to go in there and get those people
the U. S. didn't go in there and try to save those people.
It's like you're not going to go in there and say no,
there's a separate country.
because you're going into the border.
Once you get into the border, then there's a threat.
what happens is you don't mess with us, we won't mess with you,
let's mess with the neutral countries.
now I guess, other leaders were still crazier about it,
other people, you could think that they might use a bomb here and a bomb there,
Russia has never been known for throwing an atomic bomb anywhere.
the U S has.
their army or whatever can, can go in there quicker than an atomic bomb can and the job with, less suffering.
like they were saying they go,
Libya could start a nuclear war because of whoever is behind the button. But not the U S S R,
The U S S R
wouldn't do it.
Because they got too much at stake.
I guess there was concern, that would use, nonconventional warheads the chemical weapons and things
yet it didn't happen.
why not.
point of view to that is, is that on Iraq if they had.
chemical weapon used
that would have meant a total attack of the Iraq country within, three hours of when the weapon was shot.
you think it was fear that kept Iraq from
using it.
yet the,
suppose they get Saddam Hussein, which they eventually will,
he's got one less thing to go against him.
if he were to use that, he might as well commit suicide
because he's going to be captured and,
the U. S. also makes a lot of, treaties with other people saying, okay,
if you give up, then you can come live in our country
we'll take care of you, like Marcos, right.
We'll overthrow you,
yet you can still come live here,
I don't think we've done that to Saddam Hussein yet.
, no.
I think that's not very likely.
yet the parallel Russia is that Saddam Hussein is using the chemical warfare
on his own people.
I guess that makes sense what you said that, within their own borders they feel freer to do
they feel necessary.
the U. S. goes and goes into Panama
I don't believe in war.
That's my thing.
I don't believe that anybody should die
then, you have,
what happens is,
suppose go to war
I'm holding a gun
I'm just looking at myself holding a gun
whoever shoots first survives,
that same person also has a family
his parents are going to cry
life ends there
to me that's ridiculous.
I just don't believe it.
I think there are other ways to fix it even though sometimes there aren't,
it's pretty hard to think that, people are just going to shoot each other down
it's legal in a situation like that.
or it resolves anything in the end. That
that negotiations couldn't resolve.
Saddam Hussein lost so much money during the war that it was ridiculous
was trying to do was make money at the beginning
huh .
keep his power,
it sounds like neither one of us thinks that the Soviet Union is a real threat to the U S.
don't think so.
I think, their life back together now
a lot of things that you saw on TV,
a lot of, inhabitants of Russia would love to stay in their country just as long as they were able to express what they wanted to.
A lot of dancers and stuff like that.
They said that they wouldn't leave Russia unless Russia told them that they couldn't travel anymore and compete.
it must be a beautiful country.
It's just that, they won't let you get out
when you want to get out of the country, that's what you want to do.
I got to go to class now.
Nice talking to you.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
this is Jim in Dallas.
how you doing?
I'm Callie in Garland.
you're right here,
I'm actually working tonight,
I just, called and came in.
are you.
Do you work at T I?
I in the mail with the gifts,
I thought, I better make some calls.
I know,
I know,
(( )) they.
to look at them yet.
It was a lot nicer than I expected.
My daughter, got a few calls at home.
She talked to some student in,
I guess they give them to computer students, too, in, Virginia, something like that.
She's talked to two students.
I've talked to,
I don't think they were students,
one, I think, worked at a
the furthest away I've talked to someone has been New York.
we're supposed to talk about the elderly now, I guess,
we are.
Do you have anybody that you, are close to that decision on, or anything,
I've thought about it for myself and all,
mother is in a retirement home.
She's not in a nursing home.
well that's a,
did you push the button?
Did we,
hit it again just in case.
just in case .
I did it as she said,
she's down in San Antonio
it's a brand new one.
It's a Catholic, retirement home for nuns.
It's at,
let me see, Trinity,
I keep calling it Trini ,
it's not Trinity,
I'll think of,
Incarnate Word,
they have a retirement home for the nuns
isn't that neat.
they take some lay people.
Isn't that neat.
that one's really super.
know what they're talking about on regular retirement.
there's not too many,
they do have a wing where the people who are really sick,
have nurses.
that's good.
they have other wings that we visited, that are very nice.
it's just super.
That's neat.
Just supervised more or less than anything and security, I guess.
they have, a guard with locks.
We've been there once at night at Christmas.
She just went in last year.
She drives and everything,
she's perfectly healthy.
her husband died.
They were in the military together,
she just did not want to take care of the house
(( )) ,
she visited the place, and then fell in love with it, and decided to just shun all responsibilities of any kind,
so to speak,
that's good.
she's happy heck,
they (( )) serve meals, of course.
That's great.
They have clubs and a swimming pool,
that's nice.
know the ones where you're really ill, we visited a long time ago when
she had a grandmother that was in one.
they were all more or less hospitalized type
really, really sick.
Shut ins and,
It's a tough question.
it really is.
I worked in one as a teenager.
I volunteered,
you got (( )) more experience than I do then on it.
sad, heartbreaking, I guess.
felt for those people, especially the ones that never got visited.
that would be awful.
That just bothered me.
I never thought about that,
That just bothered me so much, especially, at my age,
I was probably about fourteen.
that really made a bad impression on me .
I always thought, not really bad of them, because probably pretty good for the people,
I don't know.
tough, tough decision.
I think that, hopefully we as a country are learning a little more about it,
they're getting nicer.
I've seen on T V where they take animals and young children,
in fact my daughter is one.
My wife took my daughters one year when they were getting some points for school, took them to an elderly home,
boy that really pumps them up.
That is very nice to see young people.
I think that's one of the sad things, is when you're in an older home.
If you just have people your own age, you never get a chance to see kids or anything
or animals or anything,
you can't take care of them,
kind of obvious you can't take care of children or animals
in a nursing home,
it's nice to have them visit and everything.
and get that youth back.
sometimes that even helps them, just being around young people to, because some of them are so, just stationary
they'll get in a wheelchair
they'll just sit in a chair
until you come along and really try and pump them up, they're just stationary,
I feel like, gosh, that's all they do all day long.
I do, love to see young kids go men take the pets and everything.
I think that's a real, real neat idea.
I think you do get more
mother in law just visited.
She's just about seventy five. perfectly fine.
she visited us here Dallas.
to, San Antonio, she said she's much better,
she's much more alive active when she's been on a visit
with somebody else,
our routine has (( )) obviously hectic with teenagers and everything
she's much,
the stimulation part is really important. I think, like any animal, anything
you just lay around, that's the fastest way to die, I think,
Stagnant .
that's exactly right.
I think they're really neat.
of course I've seen those reports on T V, the horrible ones
that scares me.
I'm afraid I'm a T V flipper.
Anything bad, I like, I like to,
flip, I flip it off.
it's sad,
it's sad,
It's sad to think that we would do that to people,
I've seen them on T V with, bed sores,
they just stay in the same clothes or the same sheets and not do laundry.
I just think, how can you do that?
These people have given so much of their lives, America
here is how we treat them.
Just put them in a home and leave them.
When I was, younger, lived in the East,
I'm from the East really,
it seemed like there were several people that I knew that had their, parents, A I guess they would be, but well in their seve ,
living with them.
huh .
one of them was even a woman who was fairly old,
I guess had her own separate room.
I think, whether it's more a custom up there, or maybe because I was younger
it's just not a custom anymore to have, the grandparents live with you anymore.
I guess that,
I think,
we aren't getting away from that, which is not right.
I think it's neat.
I think, you learn a lot from them
from all their experiences,
that's one of my favorite things to do is sit around and listen to their stories.
I think that's neat,
they really have a lot of good
is really old.
had him late in life,
be eighty this year.
lives with different, people in the family.
He'll switch from time to time.
I just,
that's nice in a lot of ways.
I just couldn't imagine locking,
not locking him up, but putting him in a home and just,
Bet you were surprised that you said that by mistake.
Lock him up.
That's what I think about it for me,
I think, my kids better not do that to me.
I know,
I know.
I don't want that,
think of it, how would I want to be treated
rather than,
it's easy to say, yeah,
let's put these old folks in a home,
when I think I don't want to do that,
I don't want to be
That's right.
I'd want to have my little home.
I always threaten my daughters,
I say, I'm going to build a little house behind yours,
I'll take care of your lawn, he says,
I'm not going to one of those places.
you're going to put me away.
That's what my mother,
she always,
You're going to lock me up one day, aren't you.
I can tell,
you're going to lock me up.
call it, which is really wrong.
I know.
my wife's mother, in San Ant ,
it's everything but.
The opposite of what you've seen.
it's a little hotel, you might say.
That's great.
a swimming pool, and grounds,
she has enough room.
She has two bedrooms,
separate living area.
They don't have kitchens or anything
kitchen area
where you can go down and have a
Prepare your,
make a meal,
that's great.
Now can she leave, on a day by herself?
it's nothing like that.
It's like living in the hotel.
she's totally on her own.
That's neat.
she still drives, which some, because she has dented a few things,
we keep thinking about that,
get less alert,
they don't care,
I've seen some of these elderly people on T V the ones from Florida that just run into people
they don't even
understand what happened,
I know,
bless their hearts,
you hate to hurt them by doing that,
I know.
their one last thing that they can still do,
you take away that driving ability
that would really be hard.
Go ahead,
I'm sorry.
we've thought about doing that for my husband's father, because he,
he still drives?
in one respect,
I don't know if you can afford the insurance,
luckily he drives a big old tank .
could get hurt.
I just hope to God he doesn't ever hurt anyone.
he hasn't had any accidents luckily.
That's good.
people are all different.
wonder if they should give them a test, or at least a refresher driving course, just to see how well they are every five years.
I saw that on TWENTY TWENTY.
Are they doing it?
they're, thinking of doing that.
I think that would be a great idea, because I think they do, less aware,
they don't hear as well, for one thing
that doesn't help.
everybody needs retraining.
It doesn't hurt,
the best football players and all the opera singers still have coaches,
I don't know why you couldn't after sixty five every five years have a refresher course and then take another driving.
probably help pay for some of that,
At least that way the burden is not on the family of taking their license or their car away .
there you go,
there's a good point
It's on the state .
very good point.
Very good point.
I think they maybe, should do that,
the families,
noticed any new, trends in politics?
the one I think is interesting is the police chief who says he won't resign.
did you hear yesterday that Mayor Bradley said that, he should?
I didn't hear that.
interesting is that, the political activists, Jesse Jackson and a lot of other people went out there and are demonstrating.
I find it interesting that, outsiders would bother to go in.
you feel about people like Jesse Jackson getting involved?
I think sometimes it's good for people outside.
They get a different on an issue and stuff.
I don't see any problem with outsiders going in and getting a little bit involved.
do you
I think, though, that it should still be, sort of up to the majority in the area.
I don't know,
on something like that, they wouldn't really vote on it or anything, though.
do you think Gates should resign?
probably so, just because they were under his authority
he obviously failed somewhere along the line.
speaking of that kind of issue, have you kept up with John Wiley Price?
What do you think of him?
I think he's got good intentions,
I'm not sure if the way he goes about what he does is really right.
He's an interesting person.
I was talking to someone who said that, for all his obvious get media attention that he actually is a worker on the,
I guess he's on the County, Board of Supervisors or
(( )) the, at those meetings he really comes quite well prepared and is well informed and is a hard worker
and is really quite agreeable,
and that this stuff we see is,
he's really just trying to make a political statement.
find that an interesting element of politics that most people would not know that John Wiley Price apparently
of course, he's got in (( deal )) of racism and the, name calling and all this.
apparently, he's a, a worker.
you may disagree with him,
I find this whole,
what do you think of this, fourteen one and ten four one in Dallas?
I think that they should go ahead and go to the, fourteen one.
it's just fair,
I agree with you
did you see the map they drew up how they were going to divide up the districts?
the strangest,
not sure it was gerrymandered,
the way they drew these little patterns and stuff, I guess I'm a little cynical power base.
I, I don't quite understand go with fourteen one.
it seems to me that what happened election, that a lot of the people, I think it's Hispanics don't vote because they don't think that they have any affect,
guess I am disappointed with Dallas in that, the fourteen one, it,
I don't know.
disagree with Al Lipscomb and,
the lady's name?
Diane Ragsdale?
You can disagree with, what they're doing and what they're saying,
in reality I think trying to represent their constituents.
I think Dallas is doing itself a disservice.
I think they ought to get on with something important.
they really make themselves look bad,
I don't know why certain groups are fighting so hard to keep the ten four one.
even those people are,
it's like Pauken and Box and these people,
I think kind of interesting that everybody's so busy politicking that the question is are we getting anything good done.
It's like this whole school issue.
Are you involved in the schools at all
public schools? This whole thing down there where trying to, devote all our money and raise our taxes and better schools
it all seems, like everybody's trying to one upmanship on everybody else
have got to run to a meeting.
It was good talking to you.
I don't think we've gone ten minutes
I think talked long enough.
Good talking to you.
Good night.
there's been a lot of publicity lately about that new Nancy Reagan book out by, Kitty Kelly, the unauthorized biography.
Are you interested in that at all?
Not really .
I'm not much of a fan of Nancy Reagan,
don't particularly read, biographies or autobiographies.
huh .
I haven't read too many.
more of a fiction and nonfiction reader n , not of that nature though.
was thinking about looking at it is because it's supposed to,
I'm not a fan of Nancy Reagan ,
it's supposed to have a lot of unflattering things in it.
I thought just purely for entertainment, I might enjoy that.
wouldn't want to go out and buy it the hard back copy of it.
I might check,
had it, I don't even know that I'd probably read it even if it was at the library though.
I'm just not really interested in reading about other people's lives to that degree.
unless maybe they lived a long, long time ago.
For me it would be interesting to find out what life was, in that period.
really interested .
In biographies.
(( )) .
I have read some biographies.
I prefer to read,
if I read a biography, it's mostly because maybe I have to,
back when I was in school I had to have information about that person or, preparing some kind of lesson
I need to have more information about people.
do like to read some biographies,
that one just sounded gossipy.
I wouldn't want to sit down and just read it cover to cover, but flip through a good laugh.
I think the last biography that I read, on Lady Randolph Churchill,
Churchill's mother.
that was excellent.
Was it?
It was,
it's in two parts.
I think the first one is called JENNY or something like that, because that was her name.
I only got to read one part of it.
I've been looking for, the other half of it and read the,
I read that half where she was in her later years,
it was absolutely excellent.
it was very descriptive people with money back then and, affluents in England, that, were associated to the king and all.
it was,
really pretty fascinating.
was actually a couple of years ago,
been a while since I've read,
A while.
any biographies.
I love to read.
I'm constantly reading.
I like,
as far as improving myself, I haven't read any lately.
I was reading classical works that I hadn't read before.
that you might have needed to read in school, but that I just didn't read for some reason or or you can only read so many in school that they make a requirement of.
you have so many out there never get a chance to read.
I said,
I think it was because I read, Dickens' A TALE OF TWO CITIES,
read it now, it still makes me cry, the ending of it.
could not believe that it took me so long to read such a good book.
I'd read some Dickens before,
I hadn't read that one.
I thought to myself, what other things are out there classics,
that have withstood time and that are just excellent,
something's excellent about them, whether it's the way they were written or whether it was the material about.
I started reading.
binge of bo ,
my mother,
I was living in Bermuda at the time with my husband,
my, mother sent me, full of different books.
she just would get them real cheap and stuff and send them over.
I guess because,
it seems like, older people have much better,
in their schooling, got more of the classics than I did,
she knows so much more of them than I do,
I wouldn't even know, to go look for that author or that book.
I like the classics too.
I think that there's a lot of books out now that are kind of garbage books.
don't prefer to read a lot of the things like you might find a Target or a supermarket or something where they have a bunch of books out, paperback type books.
Usually, going to the book store for a particular reason,
you read a book review or something.
A review on it.
I buy some of the, not self improvement books, but, self help books
we just bought a new house,
I bought a couple of books about how to buy a house and what to look for,
how to repair this or repair that in your own home.
I bought that for my husband .
do something books, for reference.
those are really helpful I think in helping,
some, to take your child to the doctor or not,
type books, which I use as reference and have been real handy.
purely just for enjoyment,
had a major in English and linguistics,
I a lot of books in my home that I can read from the classics,
I do enjoy those quite a bit.
a particular book I'm looking for
I just enjoy, the newspaper magazine.
It's handy.
what I do is I usually have two books at one time.
I have a classic which I have to work on, basically,
just depending,
some authors I can just, basically drink in,
others, (( eh )) , I really do have to work at them.
And then, whether, they're a foreign author or whatever, or if it's their style just understanding the material.
some of those, it's like I said,
it's like school,
you have to work at it.
to me it's worthwhile in the end.
I feel good about it,
I usually remember those a long time later.
then I have books that I read just purely for enjoyment,
Light reading.
just light reading that are,
I particularly like Dick Francis books, and just some of authors that are, for mysteries, purely for entertainment,
That's it,
I'm not really expecting to get anything out of it,
except to be momentarily pleased, because remember,
the plots or anything,
later on those books.
I think that's good because you do have to use your mind and imagine up the circumstances and things.
It's not like, most television where you can sit there and not even pay attention very much but,
still understand what was going on.
it gives you everything.
it's mindless.
the only really thing you are having to use is connecting the things that they give you,
what you're hearing and your sight.
they give you everything else.
like it's, it doesn't even have some of the underlying, things to it, that maybe the old movies and things had, the underlying themes and stuff that maybe you had to kind of figure out.
Or, with Hitchcock or something where you're either expecting something or w ,
don't know,
don't really care much for T V at all.
I just,
I sometimes get hooked into it,
get mad at myself when I do, because fully there's no really redeeming value for,
Not too much.
T V.
Not too much.
that's right.
I think it is good read books because even if light reading, you are still getting some, mental exercise .
You're developing your imagination.
when you develop your imagination, that can take you into a lot of other areas, because you've developed, your mind seeing things,
even if it's your own set way,
you're taking words and developing a picture in your mind.
That's right.
That's good.
we haven't got children yet,
I hope to, set an example for ours reading it can be your best friend,
even if you haven't got a human friend around, you can up a book
be with somebody, basically.
I think so.
I guess I'd better close now so I can,
It sounds like your kids are doing stuff .
are you a teacher?
I gathered you might be a teacher.
I'm home now,
full time.
books are important around here.
you have a good day.
Stay out of the rain.
You too.
Bye bye.
Take care.
Bye bye.
how do you feel about, the way the U S has reacted in the Middle East?
I think, the sanctions would have worked,
it would of taken longer
and, now with all this stuff coming out with Woodward's book and everything.
I saw a NIGHTLINE program last night about all the funding of Hussein's, back as early as nineteen eighty six,
(( )) been a different turn,
I don't think we projected what was going to happen after the war,
It got over so fast,
What is the Woodward book you are referring to?
it just came out, I guess, yesterday.
It's called the COMMANDERS.
And that Colin Powell was against early,
he was for sanctions.
it seems like there's, always some body digging things like that.
I'm not for sure we know exactly all happened in that situation,
we were so, fast to get over the Vietnam, whatever the Vietnam syndrome is, that now we've tied ourselves up there in the Middle East for a long period of time.
That was my feeling.
very against our involvement so quickly.
if we had that good of a correlation through the United Nations, then made sanctions work, I'm pretty sure.
With that much support, you would have just penalized any nation that broke the embargo,
I think we're very naive as far as that part of the world is concerned.
We are.
We are, I think,
we've just misread almost everything in that we always seem to be getting in bad with the wrong fellow tenure, for the next thing down the road
tend to read Israel correctly
I don't know,
it should be a mess.
It's, not going to be anything we're going to get out of very soon.
In spite of all the promises.
They can talk a good game,
being a historian, read all that clear back at least to the turn of the century with all the mess after the first world war,
I, I you're absolutely right,
too naive,
do find so called experts in any area of the world, we don't listen to them
I don't know,
interesting to keep watching I guess,
I'm just afraid
to break us.
I'm not sure we're sensitive other cultures.
Not very much in our colleges,
we're trying,
happen to teach at a college with a tremendous number of international students
cultural diversity is just something we really don't understand
it needs to be, taught from the earliest grades,
with our school systems in such disarray, I don't know, doesn't look terribly hopeful.
I'm not sure it's something you can teach.
you can at least,
give them the awareness of the different cultures and, that other people do things differently than maybe in their own neighborhood.
when those people are around
you can get them to meet
we're all pretty much alike,
That's true.
That's true.
something I said won't go away,
it will be a good topic for me in the class for along time .
I teach history,
what about the whole situation with the refugees, the Kurds?
I would just think if Bush was so successful in lining up the correlation to prosecute a war, then he should be equally successful in getting that same correlation to push the United Nations to, somehow persuade those nations to give the Kurds a homeland
they were promised that (( )) .
what about the Palestinians?
that's the same thing,
haven't been waiting quite as long, even though they've been waiting since forty eight,
becomes a different matter simply because your dealing with Israel
they seem to be more intractable than ever.
that Shamir retain his leadership backs down the slightest bit
major stature on the scene like the great statesman of the past,
at least we thought they were.
I'm not for sure that they were.
They seem to have gotten us into some of these messes.
do you think the U S should even be involved? as the world leader in the sense trying to resolve these issues
should we have just stayed out of it?
I wish we could stay out of it,
the oil is not going to allow us to.
We absolutely need that oil.
That's the major thing.
If we didn't need the oil and if we didn't have the ties with the Israelis, we could probably stay out of it.
I'm not for sure that we're not destined, at least for the foreseeable future, as long as we can keep above water, to be the world leader.
is probably, if he can keep that correlation together, especially the French, and the British, and the Germans, and be sure that the Japanese can kick in some of their money.
They may just have to,
I don't know what type of pressure they can put on all the nations there, too, because now that the war is over, societies have just about gone back to their own,
cold selves.
I wouldn't have necessarily fought for the Kuwaitis,
nobody likes them in that part of the world
it's just such a volatile area,
there's just no stability, period.
in a sense, I don't know that I would say it's good,
in a sense I'm glad that Saudi wasn't more changed the situation
it's our world to westernize the whole world,
the fact that the Saudi could just sort of pull back and, remain, culturally sort of clean is interesting.
I think you're right.
not our, role to make everybody like us.
it's just, for those who wanted to travel in that part of the world that are up in the age I am, it's going to eliminate that for awhile.
I think it's going to be too dangerous to be any place in there.
I actually lived in Beirut from sixty eight to eighty four .
did you?
it's been (( )) dangerous for sometime.
I'm not sure that it's changed that much.
haven't been to Beirut
I've heard what a wonderful city that,
it's just totally gone to,
that's it.
It really hasn't.
It hasn't (( )) .
it depends on whether one talks physical sort of cultural.
Culturally, it's obviously changed a lot.
it's more of a (( survival city )) ,
the buildings are still intact and still beautiful,
There was garbage on the corner when I got there
there's garbage when I left.
it's just a different cultural aspect.
the trucks don't come daily
you really don't want the garbage in your house,
I traveled in the area, too.
that many of the countries Turkey and Syria are the same as they were for traveling.
That's one part of the world,
I've been to north Africa a lot but not,
I haven't been to Beirut or Syria or Baghdad,
I was never able to go to Baghdad.
a visa.
things were good in the Middle East, Americans weren't really given visas to go into Baghdad.
a very beautiful part, very interesting historically, of course, which was my interest (( )) art history.
I think we've done them a good job today then.
For this little project they're doing.
In fact, I just talked to the director awhile ago,
he was checking to see if I was going to stay in because I've been so busy with this presidential search,
I haven't had a chance to,
really do any calling myself.
I see.
I see.
Then great
have a good business trip.
Thank you.
you continue (( )) .
thank you.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
All right.
I think we're terribly taxed.
think the Republicans have taxed us just as much as the Democrats,
I don't think there's a change between one party than the other.
I think we get a lot back,
not as much as we should.
I guess what I feel about it is that it's so mismanaged that got to be something.
we pay so much debt, instead of using the money for where
it ought to go, it's ridiculous.
What kills me is when they had a chance put into the Glen , Rub ,
what is it, the act where they had to cut everything across the board
Rudman Act.
Why did they do that?
That's exactly what they needed to do to get their act together.
I think they spend too much.
spend too much on themselves, too,
I think so too.
A lot of taxes gets back to the members of the Congress and everything all running for twenty years, rather than.
Things like mailings.
They don't use any kind of restraint on some of these things.
They just think once they get there that they can do just anything.
try to,
you're right.
to conserve.
of course, here at home, we end up conserving and conserving
when I don't have money, I don't buy something.
I think, it is the Congress and them just don't have any interest in saving us money,
They sure don't seem to.
The national debt is terrible.
There are a couple of things I think we need to really work for,
I don't know quite how to do it.
I think we need to have the one line, veto so that they don't have to spend so much time doing everything.
If it's a good idea
it can be done again.
if it's not, so what.
At least you haven't thrown out all the work they've done for months and months and months and months.
I saw one on TWENTY TWENTY about a month ago I guess, whereas one, I think that he was a Senator from Pennsylvania or something like that.
Maybe it was, Connecticut,
I'm not sure,
one of the small states up there, where he had a bill through for drug agency that would be located there,
he was the only one that wanted it.
Was going to cost millions of dollars.
The drug agency didn't want it,
he was going to build it in his home town
they were going to hire a lot of people,
it was ridiculous, the whole thing .
they asked him about it.
Do you really need this?
This is going to cost a lot of money.
we need it.
do you know that the drug agency doesn't want this?
they do things that are, just like the,
that's just an awful lot of that kind of thing going on.
the trouble is, so little input about it.
You don't know
enough to know to do about some of this stuff.
They're supposed to do what we say,
they do what want to do with it.
that's right.
The other thing about is I think, limiting their time in office would be good.
can't believe there aren't other people out there that could do just as well as what we've got.
We need to get that through.
I've said it several times on different subjects about the government that is enough for all of them.
whether you're mayor, all the way up, city council, the works, I think. Certainly President, that, two terms is plenty.
I think that's right.
we get these professionals out of there,
they have to learn how to earn a living again themselves, rather than
wouldn't that be too bad .
living off of us.
that's right.
I think,
I don't know,
I think, people in general,
the idea of what you need exist is so outrageous that it's not
it starts at the courts,
it starts everywhere
until just lost control any kind of perspective about what is acceptable and what is not acceptable,
it's so much money
you can't even add it up,
you can't even,
that's why they think,
can't even conceive of what they're talking about.
when you talk about the trillions of dollars
on this and that.
Our national
debt in the trillions of dollars,
you just,
the other thing is, all very well to give money to help
I think we need to do that.
to put more limits on them.
They need to restrain
Foreign aid,
about what they do.
Foreign aid means to go down to almost zero unless it's absolutely
Yeah .
given that away for fifty years.
I think that's probably, we can afford it,
if we pay off the debts then we can give it to people again.
I agree,
I agree.
I don't really mind helping people,
need to get rid of this thing just, eating us up
and get things even,
a family, we'd be up before magistrate
doing all these wicked things,
the government does it,
it's all right.
know we're taxed to death on thing.
I don't know what's the best way to do it,
they don't even talk about that.
They just raise it.
They don't even consider it, like you saying
that's true.
to cut something back,
sounds like.
They are at least doing something now, with military,
they're cutting some of that,
of course, you know T I,
you know that's hurting us
it's good to see them doing some things there anyway.
T I has gotten a lot of good contracts from the war and everything else.
And if they'll get a lot of programs in the future because of their exotic,
weapon systems.
that's the only good that I've seen Congress do, and everybody
and all the Congressmen and the President and everybody,
I think we have to accept the fact that whatever happens, we're going to have to bite the bullet.
we're all going to have to do it.
just isn't fair, though, that when this happens in some places, it needs to all come off everywhere.
That's why I thought, this is the time.
They need to put that and show they mean business. That costs.
The only taxes I think that are well spent,
not the only, but,
I don't understand the present school thing,
I have two daughters,
one's in college already,
one's about to be in high school.
I think that paying for schools is the only answer really to get rid of crime.
I don't mind paying for school
I think that's right.
taxes even though my kids will be out of it,
really mind paying taxes positive things that are helps, like roads and
making sure that, that water is safe, and some of these things.
just feel like it's out of control.
You feel like
they do not have control of it.
The spending is out of control.
just aggravates you,
you think, I could spend my money,
I could help the poor people better by myself than they're doing.
I agree with you.
think that's a wide open subject
what you said.
People need to take a stand.
I think the people will here shortly,
I think that's right.
if they don't pull it in and start doing something, I think they're really going to have to I think.
I think the next time we have an election we need to try to get some of the ones that have been there forever out, too, they did last election,
ninety some odd percent of the same old boys got back in,
we need to try to get people to two terms so they respect our wishes,
They're supposed to represent us.
That's what they're called
they don't.
Yeah .
may, maybe we can change and get us rid of some of those guys that are in there, guys and gals whatever they are.
in some ways we're awful lucky I guess.
There places where it's worse than it is here.
I know,
still, you don't want it to get that bad, good heavens.
that's right,
you don't want to,
you want it to stay as good as it possibly can be.
we need to to get hold of it have honest
I guess, in the fact I don't really mind paying taxes.
I would just like to know that they're not being foolishly spent. That they're doing something that's positive for
for somebody.
I use taxes very much .
I don't know
I do more than I,
I guess I do.
I use them roads and lot of things,
I think one of the good ones in the metroplex, in the last say twenty five years or so, maybe longer, they've built all these dams.
the Corps of Engineers another one.
droughts here in long summers
we've had good water supply,
that's due to the Corps of Engineers all these reservoirs for us,
they've done some good things.
The state actually did some work a couple of years ago.
Sam Johnson came out and talked to us about that
about what they had done.
really had done work.
I think anything for water supply like that.
California should do more of that too.
there are a lot of where they're in real trouble,
I think it would be easy enough to be in trouble here too, that early stand.
They just finished Joe Poole Lake over here,
they need to start another one.
I think every time they finish one they ought to just have
another one in line.
The water's critical.
that's probably right.
The growth is fast enough so that they can't afford to just dawdle and wait until something
til they need them.
it's good to talk to you.
How many calls have you made?
about nine.
I'm up to twenty.
Are you a T I er.
a housewife.
I just heard about it and found it fun .
Guess I like to talk, that's all .
it's been some interesting subjects,
Thanks for calling.
Bye now .
Bye bye.
did you get a chance to watch any of the games?
I, I kind of watch them on the news
that's about it.
okay .
on Chicago Bulls isn't he.
did he get hurt last night
I don't think so
I saw just a little bit of the game today
he was out there playing.
Although, saw was at the end of the first quarter,
I think he only had points
at the end of the first quarter,
they thought that was big news.
I don't know,
I don't know who won,
I don't know,
who do you normally pull for, Mavericks or,
I kind of feel Mavericks the way I do about the Cowboys now.
just all this Roy Tarpley stuff
what is it
he's in trouble again down in Houston
they said the other night his contract is so big that if anything happens to him, if they don't trade him, they'll have to pay him off,
they're rather have him, except that he gets in trouble all the time and falls off the wagon, and have some chance of him playing, earning his money.
that's just dollars right out of the franchise.
Sure is.
I've always been pulling for the Lakers for a long time.
They're consistent.
because they always win,
when they had, Akeem
anybody who was old as that playing that well, I just kind of had to go with them.
Now they kind of got caught up with a lot of the other players and, course, all the people that follow the Lakers and everything out there California.
it also helps when they were winning .
they play better as a team than anybody else, seems like.
I will take a look at the individual score, in the individual stance in the N B A
have in the paper, fifteen different categories
highest scorer, the top rebounders, assists, foul shooting percentages and all that,
you go (( down )) through
virtually every one of the categories there isn't, a Laker in the top ten
usually hardly anybody in the top twenty except for, Magic
yet the Lakers continue to win.
you're right,
I think they do really play much better as a team than they do, each one, individually at their spot .
year in and year out, it's not like they have,
a lot of teams will win in the playoffs
the next year they'll be all
they'll be too busy doing their endorsements and stuff, concentrate on the game.
I understand that,
I guess Boston's really, giving,
they playing Detroit?
I think Boston's playing Detroit
I think they're really giving them a run for their money.
except Larry Bird's hurt.
Did he get hurt again?
back is bad all the time now, I think.
I tell you what,
I guess it's tough to play that many games and still stay healthy.
they play two or three times a week.
they go on road trips
they do the same thing
they, they stay out for two or three weeks at a time.
it really gets,
they're sleeping in different bed every night
I imagine that really helps his back.
He ought to have his own bed come along with him, .
the other night on the news that he hadn't done any extra shooting for six weeks,
he's the one that's always winning the outside, the three point shot
he does that every year.
matter of fact, I watched him, on T V, sink, I don't know a,
jeez, it was thirty five baskets in thirty seconds or something like that from three point range.
I don't know,
did you ever play much basketball?
Not much.
just playing horse and stuff like that.
because kind of a violent game.
It really is for a noncontact sport,
they d ,
quote, unquote.
they don't wear any pads (( )) .
really .
I figured,
Some of those guys got pretty funny looking, eye wear.
They have to wear goggles because they get hit face with elbows all the time.
I was looking in the paper for something on it
here's the top N B A draft prospects
they're all the size of football players, except they're just taller.
Several years ago when I was up in, Cleveland, I was staying at the Marriott
the Cavaliers were playing somebody.
I think it was Utah or somebody like that
I was down by the pool
there was all these guys standing around about chest deep in water.
I wear, contacts,
had my glasses on
I went down there just jumped into the water where they were
it went right up over my head
I came up spittering and sputtering for air
they were all the basketball players there to play the Cavaliers
they were all six eight and, six ten,
they were standing in water that was six foot,
Six foot,
funny, I tell you.
a guy,
I don't remember what his name was,
he got on the elevator
he had his swimsuit on
he was just skin and bones,
it looked like something out of Africa
I made some comment
he says, yeah,
he says I weigh about, two hundred and forty pounds
he says it's not much when you stretch it over seven foot one.
you're right,
those guys really, big ones,
I don't even know how much Ewing weighs.
he's got to be way up there.
guy from L S U, Stanley Roberts,
he's seven feet tall
he weighs two hundred and eighty pounds.
God. lot .
That's guy coming down on you.
I didn't even see,
supposed to have the best, draft picks?
. It doesn't even say.
It doesn't say,
for June twenty six
they, they, have a lottery on it.
They pick numbers
that's how they take them in order.
It must not be according to did during the year.
I used to go down to Reunion Arena,
went down there a couple years on the day of the draft
that was really pretty interesting.
They usually have, a video, highlights of the season, and basically kind of walks you through what happened to the Mavs and who they traded for and how they did and a lot of good footage, both the good and the bad
don't know,
go down there last year,
was only a couple dollars to get in
it was really kind of interesting .
who do you thinks going to win the playoffs?
I don't know,
who's going,
is it Chicago and,
Chicago, and, let's see, Golden State and the Lakers and, Chicago and Philadelphia,
think Chicago's playing Philadelphia
shoot, I can't remember them all now.
Utah, Portland, Boston and Detroit.
That's the N B A?
N B A playoffs,
Philadelphia was, favored by one point over Chicago and the Lakers one point over Golden State, and Detroit by five over, Boston .
I think will win.
Think so?
I tell you what,
those guys really hang tough.
like to see them back up there again.
gave really good years enjoyment and fun and everything.
Have you ever been up there to Boston Garden?
I don't know
is that in,
haven't really gone to a lot of games live,
boy I'd sure like to.
Basketball's gotten to be a lot of fun.
How's the weather been out there?
the last three days it's been pretty rainy.
We went to the beach
it started, let's see, around four o'clock,
it had thunder and lightning,
just overcast and rainy for, the next two or three days straight.
How about yours?
It's pretty normal for this year,
they have tornados about once a week,
it rains about every three days.
The last two years before, they've had record rainfall.
By this time of the year they'd had enough rainfall for the whole year,
this time we're only, I think, maybe five inches ahead normal.
it's not been bad at all.
You're from Virginia?
I'm from Texas.
from Texas.
I heard they had some flooding down there.
they had some flooding in Houston the other day, real, real bad
the weekend.
The radar just looked nasty
with a bunch of red splotches all across it.
the last couple of years, over as far as our rainfall goes.
Before that it was really dry,
everybody was, talking about rationing water and doing this and doing that.
Not really rationing water, but just cutting down.
that's right.
it seems like, the weather pattern is just shifting, and, that, jet stream is moving, into our area, North Carolina
(( )) There y ,
and across,
it's, changing latitude.
you get a lot more rain that way.
Brings in that cold air
mixes it warm air coming off the Atlantic Ocean.
That's what,
It's finally cleared up.
It's just now a little overcast,
has finally started popping out.
Is the temperature to eighties there too,
right now, as a matter of fact I'm fixing to go play tennis.
at least seventy nine, eighty, about seventy eight, seventy nine degrees.
do you get east winds a lot of the time from the ocean
wind normally blows, let's see, south, southwest.
weather pattern north east,
you're right,
it blows north east.
That's the way it does here most of the time.
sometimes it just comes straight from the north
doesn't veer off to the east until you get down to Houston, maybe
depends on how strong the cold fronts are.
are you from Houston?
Richardson's a suburb of Dallas.
I see,
anything off the Gulf, immediately the ocean.
Hardly ever, unless there's a hurricane or something like that.
it's kind of early f ,
I was going to say, the weather man one of our stations was talking about the way that the weather's doing now is like tropical weather,
he was afraid if it kept doing that, that they'd have hurricanes this year.
we've had some, rough winds.
boy, caught it bad .
Kind of wiped them ou ,
we'll probably have our share of the hurricanes.
I know, Hurricane Hugo,
you probably heard about that.
last year.
Wiped everything out.
they're still, rebuilding from that storm,
beaches here just get really beat up
it usually comes this way .
It comes up from, Miami
down the Bahamas,
it usually travels, northwest,
it'll go up the coast quite a ways before it finally hits.
get many tornados this time of year
let's see,
two years ago we had one,
as a matter of fact it went within a mile of my house.
it was real odd.
The pressure drops during a tornado,
our, fire alarm went off.
of course that woke everybody up,
we knew what was going on, to, go downstairs or go into the and, take cover.
we get,
we get our share of tornados.
aren't in the mountains or anything like that, are you?
We're about two hours from the beach.
higher in the mountains,
coming off of them, I think.
let's see,
you all just had a tornado, over close to Oklahoma and Texas?
had a lot of them.
They had huge one that was on, INSIDE EDITION the other night, in, the southern part of Kansas.
they took a bunch of film of it.
It, kind of chased them.
It was a few hundred yards away
it chased them under an underpass,
it was tossing around the car
right before it got there,
it tore up the people inside the car.
did it?
man on the news crew held the camera out,
they were hiding underneath the underpass,
he held the camera out as the tornado went by.
the wind, it had a mike on it,
the wind and everything was incredible.
Boy I would have like to have heard that.
That have been something.
I'm surprised they didn't, saw it on the news a couple of days in a row
that was way up in Kansas.
over here, about tornados and people that get pictures of them.
I used to live in Amarillo originally.
you can really see them well there.
Oh yeah.
on our back, picnic table and watch them come out of the sky through the funnel clouds
the only time we got worried is if it hit the ground.
otherwise we'd just sit back there and watch them go in and out of those clouds.
It's really strange the way it does that.
Especially the way it starts.
It starts, just like a little swirl in the clouds,
then it just grows from there.
usually it's not even raining when it starts.
It's just.
you'd be amazed at how clear the sky was,
the clouds are just really, rolling
kind of just real pillowy, I guess.
That's right,
they're black,
sometimes they're even green colored.
I was in that, big tornado went through Wichita Falls.
the sky,
we were right in the middle of it, when, signs and telephone poles were dropping all around us.
a whole roof of a restaurant came off.
it was blue green color.
the lightning was almost continuous, just, as if you put your hand on one of those electric, things that causes lightning.
I think it was called the storm.
that's it.
was full of that eerie blue green, lightning.
what we get this time of year, just, through June,
two years, nine inches of the Junes the last two years.
this year,
get about five inches in May,
over that.
We haven't got that much rain,
when it rains, been downpouring.
All right,
I hope you have good weather the rest of the summer.
You, too.
Have fun playing tennis.
Bye bye.
do you have any advice for college?
I'm full of advice.
I'm still a graduate student.
having been there not too long ago, and my wife having only recently completed a doctorate,
I'm fairly full myself.
the main point that I have about choosing where you want to go to school, is that, what it is you want to do
or at least what area you want to be in.
I had the unpleasant experience of going through several schools that were very specialized.
I went through a number of them,
undergraduate schools, before I found good school that was more general, to give me time to make up my mind.
that's interesting.
I went to liberal arts school, at first,
you weren't really even,
they didn't expect you to choose any sort of major or anything at all until you were in your second year,
I think you had to pick it, by the end of the second you had to pick some sort of major,
until then they didn't sort of force you.
sort of forced you to run around taking classes in everything until then. Certain requirements,
you had to sort of get a general feel for everything,
it wasn't that specialized.
That's wonderful.
I'm a great of liberal arts education,
for anybody.
being an engineer now, I believe in it even more strongly than I did before.
I was just on a committee recently, sponsored by, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, they were just trying to figure out how to fit science and liberal arts together, because there are people who are getting just wonderful science educations and not getting enough liberal arts,
and then the other way around as well,
people are getting pure technical science educations and not getting very good liberal arts sorts of issues.
thus far it's working to my advantage.
the great gap historically been while they may have all this technical information, they have no way of imparting it another engineer.
I have the ability to listen to them and then translate that into something that nonengineers can understand.
that must be helpful.
(( That could be very helpful )) .
a lot of fun, at the moment.
I figure that, probably the thing I would most tell any parent, to tell their kids, I think, probably
make sure the kid goes to a school where they get sort of a general education
save specialization, I guess, for graduate school, unless they're sure to do something like engineering or something.
they can,
Even at that, I have a son, only nine at the moment.
I see him very rapidly becoming the engineering personality,
if he decides to pursue that, I'm going to insist that he spend two years at a liberal arts college, before I'll even let him go to an engineering college.
that'll add one year to his education experience.
that's a good idea.
where I am right now,
I'm at the University of Rochester,
that's a pretty good engineering school, I think.
I think we do some
it is.
they have pretty good engineering here.
They also have large liberal arts college as well. A sort of, a separate, arts and sciences college.
I believe the engineers are sort of required to take classes everything,
I do work in language processing,
at least one person who's in my field an electrical engineer student, and then switched over at some point into language processing, because he found that he enjoyed it more.
they do force them,
people are forced to sort of take all different kinds of classes here, which I think is wonderful.
I agree.
I have the experience,
the last school that I went to was Mississippi State University
which is historically an engineering and agricultural school.
the typical land grant university,
every state's got one.
while it has both engineering and liberal arts, the engineering students tend to cluster together.
they're in classes together, even when they're outside of the engineering department.
they don't learn the communications,
they don't learn the thought processes of other fields endeavor.
that's kind of like if I were king for a day, make one rule.
My rule would be, no one could get out of high school without an entire year of philosophy.
That would,
be very good actually.
that's not even true in our colleges.
don't need any philosophy at all in school.
so ,
or, or some other thought provoking area,
Very true.
went to Brandeis,
don't know if you know of it or not,
we had, a requirement freshman year of just Humanities.
Then you were given a choice of,
there were ten or twelve, or whatever, different courses that you could take,
of Philosophy, English, and Literature departments,
they were a set of assigned readings everybody had to read, for,
the first year Humanities courses everyone had to read the Iliad so forth,
what they did do, was they all approached it very different,
that you could have one class in the philosophy of something, the philosophy of Greek mythology or something that actually approached this, literature course or, just all sorts of different perspectives on it,
people got to
by the end, everyone had a good sample of, sort of how to think about these things nonscientifically,
that sort of forced them.
I believe that one of the best things to do, at least for me in school I was sort of forced to take lots of different kinds of courses.
I was forced to take, I think you know, some sort of art history course,
we all grumbled about it at first,
then, afterward, we all wound up taking extra art history classes, because it just seemed like we didn't totally know nothing about, but just enjoyed very much doing,
Yes, I re ,
and something I would never would have done I wasn't forced to take it.
I remember that experience
that and, extra music classes.
really is something I notice,
I talk to a lot of my friends at school that are more specialized,
they don't have that.
went in and took their courses that they were expected to take,
that was all.
They never had some of the more fun classes, I guess (( )) .
I feel a little more worldly now .
that will continue to grow even as you go beyond graduate school.
I'm hoping, I'm hoping.
you gone straight through?
graduated, college in eighty seven,
I just went straight through.
I'm finishing up next year.
I didn't take any break or anything yet.
to do the same thing, take courses, my area,
I'm finding in graduate school it's a lot harder, because, I just don't have the time any more to sort of sit in a course, that I'm not getting graded for.
Whereas before I would just sign up for credit for it, now I can't sign up for an art history course for credit necessarily.
I have to try and go myself,
I went for two or three weeks and realized, not enough time for the work unfortunately.
That's true.
Are you pursuing a Master's or a Doctorate?
I'm pursuing a Doctorate in Psychology.
I'm just, wind up spending a lot of time doing that instead.
what else.
think I,
encourage you to stop and experience life along the way.
first enrolled in college in nineteen sixty six.
six years, war later, I got
fifteen years after that, I got the first of a set of master's degrees
four years after that I got another master's degree.
You had real world experience in the middle there.
that helped, you think?
that was,
certainly makes acceptance of different ideas a lot easier.
I'm getting some of that.
sort of some,
work experience (( )) .
My wife is not an academic at all.
My wife is sort of in the real world,
I sort of hinge halfway out in the real world
getting, real world (( )) .
Especially she works for a temporary agency,
I never would have had,
she's the office supervisor,
I've learned much just sort of by watching her business as well.
I can see where that might be a,
vicarious learning is a wonderful thing.
Yeah .
It certainly means that we don't have to experience everything,
experience is a wonderful,
That's my,
teacher also.
I'll take that (( )) and think that through a little bit.
My wife, I may have mentioned, just finished a doctorate a couple of years ago.
she pursued her education along the lines that I did
with lots of break in between.
she feels reasonably comfortable teaching now.
She has an awful lot of experience to draw on.
No longer ,
I take it since you selected this topic that you have children.
I don't,
You don't?
I have nine younger brothers and sisters.
My goodness.
I have two daughters
latchkey children for a while,
they're almost where I can start saying they're, young adults,
I don't have to worry about child care too much anymore.
we're supposed to discuss what criteria we would ask,
or expect.
I would assume looking for a day care center or something like that.
if I were look ,
probably even baby sitters would be the same thing.
I think top priority would be that it would be someone who would be responsible and someone that would actually like children.
I would think someone older
I would want to know if they've had any past experience with children.
I think that varies.
I think a lot of your criteria vary with the age of your child.
that's true also.
once they get to a certain age it's almost more important that it's someone that can entertain your child as opposed to someone who's, qualified
per se.
baby, definitely have to be someone who knows how to handle a baby and would know how to respond to an emergency.
I did a lot of baby sitting when I was younger.
I'm twenty two now
I did most of my baby sitting when I was between the ages of thirteen and sixteen.
the only thing people ever asked me,
of course, they knew I came from a family with younger kids,
they really didn't ask me if I was used to children or not.
The only other thing they asked me is what I would expect in pay.
I was pretty surprised because if I had a child and someone, for people that that person has baby sit for before.
I baby sat a lot also I grew up
coming from, that background and the background as a parent now, I think the reason that people don't ask a whole lot of questions is lot of times baby sitters,
I know I did this with my children,
somebody where you kind of know the family already.
that gives you so much basic knowledge that you don't ask a whole lot of questions.
I had three younger brothers and sisters myself
thought, okay,
she knows treat children.
pretty strange.
this lady saw us at church
She didn't really know my mom.
She knew my mom by name
that was it.
she knew that I was one of the oldest girls in my family
she just asked my mom if I could baby sit.
she really didn't know my name or anything,
I thought that was pretty strange.
she had two children.
One was still in diapers when I started baby sitting.
she pretty much, just assumed that I would know, how to handle them.
I get along with them very well
there's no problem.
with today's world and the kids today, that I would just ask someone, that I didn't know like that to baby sit.
I agree with you,
there again of your family,
that's true.
met in a safe setting, such as church.
she was going on those two instincts.
Just the same I know myself,
I never,
I was very very protective on who baby sat my children.
I would be too .
it really shocked me
just about six months ago someone came to my front door, rang the doorbell.
She had just moved in the neighborhood.
She had her daughter with her,
the daughter was, about a second grader.
she was actively looking for people who would baby sit her child.
I thought, she doesn't know me or my children from anything.
almost more reluctant of letting my older children go baby sit for her because I didn't know her
then she was reluctant of letting strangers into her house.
people are so different.
I know.
obviously you've never had to look for a day care or anything.
have, child, in a day care for just a short time my oldest was about two and a half
I worked just a part time job
those situations, what I did is in
I made (( a few )) phone calls,
I went in and visited.
I asked questions such as how they would discipline a child.
that was a concern with me.
you learn a lot by going in there
to you, what their day consists of and what their general rules are,
as much as I know.
You probably could get really good feedback from a lot of other working mothers
that have done this over and over again.
go ahead.
How did you stumble upon the day care center?
Did you just look it up in a phone book
what was it?
I think I went by location for one thing.
I think most people do that.
I think you start out with the criteria of, do I know of anything
do I know anyone who has their child in a day care
say most people would probably go by word of mouth.
even at that you have to consider the logistics of it.
you're not going to take your child south of town if you work north.
if that's the best one in the whole wide world .
are just so many considerations.
Then again, did, money come into play with it at all?
money is always a factor in my life,
had the luxury of not having that be a factor. even in something as important as day care.
I know if I didn't have that stipulation, I would have done things differently
Montessori school would be something that I would have pursued,
that's always a little bit more expensive than what I could look at.
I was very very fortunate in that I didn't have to do that on a full time basis.
into the full time basis day care,
Good morning.
My name is Jean.
I'm Tina.
where you from Tina?
I live in Garland, Texas.
Garland, Texas,
I'm in Pennsylvania.
my lands, you're the farthest person I've ever talked to.
Really? .
Do you work for Texas Instruments?
My husband does.
Probably most people you talk to do,
Most of them do.
I don't have anybody that works for T I,
my son works for a computer company, the National Institute of something,
I don't know what .
I see,
well that's neat.
I guess we're supposed to talk about foods today.
I guess you have to push one, though.
You ready?
foods like you would (( )) for a dinner party or something like that.
I guess so,
it may be interesting, because probably here in Texas, we may eat a little differently than you do up there .
I don't know,
my brother lives down (( East )) of us down there,
I don't think they ate all that much different .
I think as long as you plan your basic foods,
course, for a dinner party, you fancy things up a little bit more.
that's true.
the thing that I found interesting,
my husband and I lived up in Washington State for awhile
up there, of course they ate a lot of sea food,
and that kind of thing,
down here, sea food is pretty expensive, because,
you have to ship it a long way to get it .
it's not as good as if it's fresh.
here, we eat a lot of Mexican foods,
up there there was place that we went tasted like real Mexican food to me.
Is that right?
it tasted like they were trying to do the best they could,
it just,
didn't taste right.
they probably were trying to do the best they could.
down here, we eat a lot more fried foods, I think.
chicken fried steak,
is a real big thing.
Up there, it was hardly ever heard of
we drink ice tea with every meal,
up there hardly anyone drank ice tea .
they do in the summertime,
(( I think that ))
tea is big in the summertime mostly.
Of course, you have warmer weather most of the time.
it never gets real cold.
we have a dinner party around here, I think a lot of the time a Mexican menu is something real popular.
Is that right?
I know that, I do a lot of planning with our church,
a lot of the times when we get together, everybody will bring a Mexican dish
Italian food is real big too.
More like covered dishes for those type of dinners.
(( )) .
How about you,
what is real popular up there?
I don't know,
just about anything .
really, use most anything.
think (( )) parties and that though are,
we had a dinner party not too long ago with a mystery dinner party .
basically, we all the basic, foods that you are supposed to have in a meal (( )) .
Your, bread family and your,
or least what it used to be the regular menu (( was followed and )) ,
ham and bake potatoes,
something from area that you're supposed to choose from.
we ourselves are into the wok cooking,
you know they been advertising that
we've really been enjoying those, meals.
that's good.
They have a lot of vegetable to them,
they really are very good.
love that kind of cooking.
am married to a man and have two children that eat about four things .
Is he a meat and potato person?
all our family gone.
They are out on their own.
That probably makes it easier,
much different
We find ourselves eating a lot of macaroni and cheese
(( of course )) ,
my husband didn't like that,
we had five children
we ate that when wasn't going to be home for supper,
(( that's what we had )) .
that's pretty much what we do,
if dad's not coming home, we have macaroni and cheese,
or something.
they like, spaghetti.
that's one meal,
I can fix
the whole family eats.
there are several things that,
as a matter of fact, I keep chicken nuggets handy all the time, because.
those always go good.
the children love them,
they are real easy to cook
that way, whatever meat we have, if they don't like it,
my girls don't like beef,
don't know,
I guess,
that's good the the things are going.
it could be,
I think it's the texture of it,
it takes more chewing .
Children usually they like the ham and the hamburgers,
and that,
it is easier to chew.
they're not too much into beef.
My husband and I eat more beef than we should,
at least we keep our chicken nuggets handy for them .
We don't really too much.
I don't know if you do or not,
don't a whole lot,
we're more, once in a while, but mostly family,
(( )) activities.
most of the entertaining we do is church associated.
We have a real tiny little house,
we don't have room really,
to have people here.
we do get together for at our church,
my husband and I do a lot of the planning in that.
that's good.
it is
it's fun to,
I like just having a pot luck meal where everyone brings their favorite dish.
we do a lot of that (( take )) ,
things to church
our homemakers meet at the church also,
that's what we do mostly,
most of the time for that.
you don't really include any certain food groups,
you just bring,
what you like .
That's right .
Sometimes you have all desserts,
Yeah .
you have all vegetables .
that's true,
that's the only problem with just letting you bring whatever,
you, like best.
it doesn't happen very often,
usually you get a pretty wide variety
(( )) ,
have pretty good meals,
from one of those.
I remember one time we had a progressive dinner.
those are fun.
It's the only time that ever.
they are.
it's the only time I can remember that,
I can't remember what food it was
might have been the main dish that hardly anyone showed up with.
Several people were supposed to bring,
each, appetizer,
and a main dish and a dessert.
we had tons of desserts and tons of appetizers
(( huh
)) (( )) ,
when we came to the dish plate,
there was only two or three .
Was there enough to go around? .
not really,
you know we all took real tiny little portions,
and, were kind of angry with whoever it was,
we were not sure who didn't show up with the food .
that's kind of irresponsible and does upset you, because they are grown adults usually ,
you know they know better.
Even if they can't do it, they can always maybe get somebody else to (( cook )) .
go ahead and fix your dish
call someone that can.
I know it.
that sounds neat,
I can't, believe you're so far away,
you sound so close.
They said that
It sounds like you're here in Dallas.
a recipe
I'm up at my daughter's,
I don't even have any of my recipes with me.
(( )) ,
I don't know if I have anything handy,
to go swimming,
we're waiting on my sister.
Cara, hold on just a second
As a matter of fact, my,
They are ready to go.
little one is hollering .
talked long enough
I think it probably has been.
I'll let,
I've enjoyed talking to you.
same here.
You have a good day.
Thank you.
Thanks for calling.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
let's see.
How many,
you said yours are all,
that sounds like an army.
That is an army,
I came from a family of six,
I have only got two,
they are, one ...
(( )) any number is nice, let me tell you.
I kind of decided that children that, not parenting,
that's a hobby.
It's not as fair to the children either, I do not think.
do not tell that to all my friends.
They are into quality time.
I am into getting through the day.
sometimes you can hurt them by having too much quality time too.
. I can spot a kid spend every,
quality time with them, outside of the work day.
when I take care of some people's kids,
have teachers' holidays,
and that kind of stuff, I will take my friends' kids,
that are usually in day care,
you can spot them,
You can tell.
because they have no idea how to hang out and mess around.
How to just entertain themselves.
It's a problem for any child
you take one that's used to being, busy something to do all the time, it makes a big difference.
It's not a problem for my two,
they are only eighteen months apart .
keeps you busy.
They can find things to do and mess around,
and plot and scheme and everything else.
that's great.
complete college?
our last daughter, she did not want to go to school.
married now,
they built a home just a couple miles from us.
how did you go about selecting a college, then? .
we did not do it right all the time .
With our first boy, we persuaded him to start here,
I do not always think you should try to make them stay closer to home.
look at what they are interested in. and take what they are interested in,
then start looking for schools.
Do you think that what they say that they are interested in is, at eighteen is going to be what they are ultimately
not necessarily.
ultimately graduating at.
Mike, our oldest boy, I think he would have.
He wanted to go to (( Embrey ))
we talked him into going local here first.
he only went a few months and then transferred to Pittsburgh.
He went to aeronautical, just learning to work on engines and that.
it has to do with airplanes and everything, which is what his whole life is .
I really wish we would have let him go where he wanted to go originally.
he would probably be flying, is what he would be doing.
right now, of course, working for Pratt and Whitney in Connecticut
they build and rebuild non jet engines.
How about the who went?
where she wanted to, F
we did not want her to go,
she went to Erie, to Gannan University. or Gannan College,
I am not sure which it is,
college, I guess.
she went there two years
it was more expensive
she soon realized,
even though she did not like Clarion, she came back and finished at Clarion. Because, it, saved her quite a bit of money
she got really the same basic education that she wanted.
our other two boys, they went to Clarion also. And, did very well there.
really good jobs.
When they were, in junior high and high school,
have an idea that they were definitely going to go to college and,
they kind of had that,
they just expected to go.
Daphne never went,
she always said she would never go to college.
I always thought she would change her mind,
she did not.
there's nothing wrong with that, if,
college is not for everybody.
does make a difference in your income.
I think it's what they want out of life,
if they get an education and are willing to go where the jobs are, they can make much better income.
my kids, they are all making more than my husband was making when he retired from the state.
that boggles,
I was,
my mind.
I was making more than, I was making three times what my father was making,
as an executive in the insurance industry, when he retired.
did you go to college?
You did.
it makes a difference.
I went, four years to undergrad at University of Nebraska at Lincoln,
because Lincoln is my parents live.
was not a choice,
the finances, dictated that you had to go there.
I kind of,
I am not going to say I resent it,
I was,
one of the national merit scholarship qualifying and,
one of the Rhodes Scholars kids,
and the whole bit,
my parents did not even discuss with me going to college out of state,
Some place else.
or anyplace else,
I just knew that the finances, would not support it.
If I had known much less difficult than I thought it would be to get a, scholarship,
to go anyplace else, I think that I would definitely, have gone .
when I finished there, then I got a scholarship to go the Harvard University in Boston.
probably one of the best things that had ever happened,
I was,
That's great.
taken out of my element, the homogeny midwest,
which is a lovely place to grow up,
and put into someplace else where,
people thought differently,
looked differently, sounded differently,
Different life styles,
different life style.
I think it was probably one of the best things that ever happened to me.
my kids, I keep saying that, I would like them to go to the best school that they possibly could.
I do not know, what the realities, is going to look like,
we are putting money away already.
I really think it's important to put these children someplace where, in addition to, them getting an education, they really need socialization away from what they are raised in.
Especially if you lived a pretty insular community
An upper class suburb of Dallas, let me tell you,
It's quite a bit different.
It's very different.
that's the way we are,
we are more of a rural type of an area
it does make a difference.
say, you should not look at the expense of the college when you are looking.
You should not.
not really.
they say that a lot of times you get more help,
with a more expensive college.
in the long run, if it's really what they want, they are better off.
Now our children all pretty much borrowed for their school.
did all we could,
they pretty much had to borrow a lot of their money to go.
They suggested some sort of a recipe, for, company, for entertaining.
Did you have anything in mind that, you'd like to share?
I, just had a Christmas Around The World party
the other night and had some hors d'oeuvres.
I fixed, a crab meat spread that is real good and real easy.
that sounds good.
eight ounces of cream cheese
you mix it with one tablespoon onion juice and one tablespoon lemon juice, one tablespoon worcester sauce and mix it and spread it out onto a plate.
One tablespoon of worcester?
you take and, cover that with drained crab meat mixed with one of the small bottles of chili sauce and spread it over the top and spread it on Triscuits crackers.
that always goes over real well
it's real easy.
How much chili sauce did you say?
It's one of the small bottles.
I don't think,
Not eight ounces.
That would be a lot.
it's about eight ounces.
Is it?
this would make a lot, right?
it would probably make,
it doesn't make quite as much as you think,
spread it out because you keep the cream cheese kind of thin.
how much crab meat did you use?
One tin.
Of the flake.
drain it real good.
One can of flake.
Have you ever used the, imitation, yet?
I have.
I used it, last Christmastime.
what did I put it in?
I think I just served it by itself.
There's a little tidbit with the sauce to dip it into and stuff.
that sounds,
I've tried it
I have it here on hand for about a week
all of a sudden it dawned on me,
wait, is this totally imitation
I found out,
I went back to the store
they said it is a fish product.
therefore, you really don't have a very long life,
once you buy it.
I thought, they should put some directions on some of these new things they're making that you really don't know what the shelf life is.
That's very true.
Very true.
I had bought a cheesecake,
they very nicely put onto the box that it may be re frozen, which I felt was real nice.
that's a good idea.
Whose was that?
It, was, Lawry's, I believe, or Lawler's.
(( )) ,
I got it,
do you have a Sam's Wholesale Warehouse up there?
It's real,
that's where I picked it up.
It comes out of Chicago
they're very good
that sounds good
that's great.
That must be the ones that look like they're packaged for a restaurant.
the little papers between them.
hey, that sounds,
I think they're, about nine dollars and something.
it's something good to have on hand, too.
It's frozen
in the first
place, right?
you can,
it is frozen, isn't it?
it is frozen.
you can re freeze.
I thaw it
you can re freeze it.
Hey, that sounds great.
That s ,
that's the one thing that I hate to make is desserts.
do you?
that's my favorite.
Is it?
I really don't care for desserts that well other than one piece of it.
I love to eat it,
I don't like to make it.
It takes time
you have to rack your brain,
time I don't have anymore .
thing I hate most about entertaining is thinking of what I'm going to serve.
It is.
said I can make it no time.
It's trying to think,
we just, built a new home
I have one of these kitchens that's the center of the house
no matter where they're at, your company can see you cooking.
That's right.
Which is funny.
And your mess .
is what everyone has said.
They said it's okay for you because you keep a real neat kitchen.
I said, yes,
I decided it looks better in BETTER HOMES AND GARDENS than it does in practicality.
Yeah .
what I have learned in the, ten months we've lived here, is when I entertain, I have to have my foods all prepared and in the oven with through, ready
to serve.
with the open area, you don't want someone from your dining room seeing your mess, like you said.
you have to have the picturesque kitchen, right out of the magazine.
I like to have mine all done anyway, because then party, too.
I don't want to sit in the kitchen and be putting an olive on something .
You're right.
you know the funny thing is, now that I have a large kitchen with a big island and that, I still have people trying to come,
they'll come in the kitchen
I said, out,
we have the chairs on the other side of the counter
Correct .
for guests.
You're not allowed to trespass into my kitchen .
has worked out.
at our point of life we know many of the people we're entertaining
well enough that they know, it's very much at home type situation.
a lot of our entertaining anymore with the couples, again, that we've known a long time like you, all bring things
it sure makes it a whole lot easier.
we even
have a better one.
Now we decided that we all meet, we have it worked,
All right,
I'm not a big exerciser,
I kind of had to start after I had my baby because I wanted to lose that extra weight.
basically at this point a real walker.
I am, too.
Are you?
I don't do fancy type walking where they kind of move their hips, and
keep their arms up.
I don't do that.
I mostly just take walk around the block or with my baby
I have to do that at least once a day. If it,
that's good.
If it's going to make any effect on, since I have to eat the same as I did before.
I can't neglect that because of the baby either.
how old is your baby?
was premature,
she's about nine months now, though.
Goll , times goes fast.
I walk two and a half to three miles every night.
that's great.
My husband and I were on Nutrisystem about eighteen months ago
he lost sixty two pounds
I lost twenty one.
my goodness.
. we've decided to maintain our weight, that we will do this exercise walking program
we walk our dog every night
and go up around the elementary school.
We have a little path that we do.
if it's raining or real cold
which it hasn't been
we try to get out, night.
he plays racquetball twice a week,
I'm not into that,
I think the walking is enough to help us stay in shape and toned.
I think that is just wonderful.
as far as I'm concerned, I have several other children
I think at this point to fit it other things, it's kind of a task.
it's not to where I'm just so freed up that just go, this is wonderful,
let's go .
Right ,
that's right.
I know my kids are into sports
we won't finish with the football game till around nine thirty
we will just go out after that.
my kids, luckily, are old enough I can leave them at home alone while I go out and walk.
does your husband usually go with you, then?
that's really nice.
Because mine's at meetings sometimes
he's not really into it
I have to,
my husband never was either until he lost the weight.
That was his decision.
He had arthritis in his hips
his doctor said he needed to lose weight and exercise.
I think that is so wonderful.
once he got motivated, now he's ready to walk every night.
our dog has lost a little weight.
He walks every night, too .
he gets excited when he sees us put on our walking shoes.
I bet.
I think that's really, really good.
I think kind of does get to be a routine.
It's not,
when I first started, it, that was the hardest thing was
Making time for it.
to get ready and get out there.
now if I haven't done it in a day or two or something, I really notice that I haven't done it in a ...
I like the time because my kids, sometimes they come with me
sometimes they don't.
when they don't, really notice, how fun it can be when they come.
I like to have somebody come with me.
I know,
I do, too.
I know the people that if anything ever happened I could go to a home
around this block area.
not real dangerous,
still, I don't like to go alone.
I never do either. Even if I have my dog with me.
it's nice to have another person there,
Mostly, it's my husband
sometimes it's my kids.
I think that's great.
take my kids to the playground that's the only other exercise really think I do.
I was on an exercise program before where it was more like an aerobics type thing.
I found real quick that wasn't for me.
Me, too.
I did the dance step when I lived up in
huh .
it just wore me out.
I would leave totally exhausted.
I never lost any weight,
I got to the point I dreaded going in.
So walking seems to be a good solution for me
it doesn't cost anything .
Right ,
it gives me time to think.
I think, not only does it help my body,
I think it helps my mind
I like that.
That's the one time in the day my husband and I can get away and talk
without having the kids jump in and ...
need something
They can wait until you get back home.
I think that's great .
that's what I do for ,
that's all I do, too.
how's the weather been in Plano? .
Basically about the same as what you've probably had.
this is probably unusual topic to give two of us in the same city.
I don't know about you,
I was really enjoying the cool snap last couple of weeks,
I'm ready for it to come back.
you like the rain, do you?
not the rain so much as the cool, the other mornings when it was sixty five when we woke up and sixty six,
today I know when I got up that the temperature said more close, seventy nine or eighty
I'm kind of ready for the pumpkin weather.
are you?
I don't care for that as much.
You don't
are you a summer person?
I'm a summer person
Are you?
I like the heat.
I have a friend who's the same way,
anything below sixty, she's just not happy
think what I would miss is the change of seasons and all because I know in Plano we really don't have as many seasons as,
my husband's from Nebraska,
they have more of the four seasons.
I'm from Utah,
the four seasons
used to that, too.
I just don't like the cold.
You don't like the cold.
I usually like it about sweater weather,
the problem
here in Plano is it doesn't last very long.
It goes from hot,
you get a couple of weeks of that Indian Summer,
it's cold
I wish it were several months of that.
is don't like the rain either.
I don't either unless it's
some of my favorite's a Friday night when it rains
you really didn't have anywhere to go,
it's sleeping time.
if you have to get up and get out in it, I don't like it either .
we have several children that are in sports,
it always makes their games be postponed forever and ever and ever on, on, and on.
sure it does.
That kind of schedule, you really need a lot more sunshine.
I like it better, I think.
also the evenings are going to be getting, darker sooner
it gets cooler.
I did a walk last night,
it seemed like it was a little bit hot still.
Sometimes when you work up a sweat you need it to be a little bit cooler.
The thing about when it gets hot here is, I don't like the humidity,
that part I don't care about.
I agree, absolutely,
it's all relative,
I was from West Texas,
it was very dry,
I thought Dallas was awful,
I still think so,
then this summer we went to Orlando for a week,
it was so humid there that windows every morning.
They had to get the
squeejies and clean them off.
when we got back to Dallas it seemed really dry ,
because it's kind of like what you're used to.
I agree with you,
the humidity, especially for curly heads like me.
is that right?
I do not like the humid , .
another reason,
I guess I can't say that don't like the rain completely.
We have a little garden that we have
it really helps our garden,
I don't know if that's because plants are just that way
they like rain,
it seems they thrive when it rains,
they just, really,
I think so too.
I know our grass needs mowing twice as often
when it rains
it seems like here,
I would like it to rain and then be over, and then not rain for a while.
It seems like when it gets stuck in a rain pattern, that's all it does.
am ready for a little bit of the cooler weather and not so much in the nineties
but something like,
I guess best would be probably sixty eight when you wake up or sixty six, and then probably seventy five during the day.
I like seventies
I like seventies okay.
like the heat in the summer then when it gets up in the nineties and hundreds.
I don't like nineties.
You can give me seventies
you can give me eighties
keep it there .
I'm okay.
when it gets too hot, then I don't like that
I stay in the house because it's just,
I do, too,
I do, too
It's just too hot.
that was one thing about the year around school that originally we had been sort of negative on it.
then we started thinking, especially in Plano, the weather is so hot in August, that there really isn't a lot the children can do outside anyhow.
Static here.
That's okay .
thought about that, too,
when we take our vacations, do take them in August sometimes
so that we can be away from here .
We do too.
I think a lot of people agree the same.
It just really gets way,
when it gets way too hot
we've been here for several years,
we've been here years when it's been hundreds
now there have been worse summers.
In fact this morning when they were talking about, Harold Taft, they were talking about how this has been one of the milder
of the summers and milder fall,
everybody seems to be,
you can tell some of the newscasters when they like the heat, because they'll talk about it being so gorgeous on those days when we're melting,
you can tell when they talk about beautiful weather some mornings when too cold,
they'll say,
those are the ones that like the cold weather.
always did such a good job, I thought.
he did,
he did.
It was
A good weather man,
it was really a shame.
He didn't go with all the gimmicks that some of them did.
I guess it's,
It's kind of hard to keep on about the weather for five minutes .
That's okay,
they say when you're done you're done,
is that right?
you don't have to wait for them to say
cut off your time.
You just say, Have a good day or whatever.
then have a good day.
You too.
I hope you enjoy the weather this week.
You too.
What is it about, nursing homes?
about nursing homes,
older people.
my husband has a grandmother that lives with his mother
they're just really close here.
his mother has bad health too
I go over sometimes in the day when he's at work
I, help with her and bathe her and feed her.
really believe.
It's really difficult to be a caretaker twenty four hours a day.
it's very difficult
I know.
has Alzheimer's and does not remember, a lot
if anything.
she asks the same questions over and over again. Which is not
you just have to try and be patient and answer them again or just answer another question.
(( some )) nights his mother calls me and says can your family,
just bring the kids (( in )) the family
just come over visit grandma because she gets very disoriented.
how old is she?
She's ninety two.
father is ninety two
live at the house and drive and
I think that's wonderful.
and do the whole thing,
happens to one of them then,
I don't know what I'll do up there.
just know too many horror stories about nursing homes
I was just going to say.
They're in Missouri
I know, I know stories for sure that they just, they can't take the proper care of them.
Most of them.
tragic that, when people live so long that they, to go.
I think it's wonderful places that aren't nursing homes necessarily
they can go and reside there like little apartments,
places in between places.
I like that idea if they can handle it themselves.
there's one very close to where my parents are
I think it would be nice
my dad's the type he wouldn't want to spend the money on anything.
yeah .
he's from that old depression era
just (( blissfull )) that they're both,
able to do everything for themselves.
I would imagine that move one of them or bot , with me.
I know a lot of people have said that and then find out how tough it is
I think you'd have to really,
they also wanted us to talk about you'd have to really check on the,
Nursing homes.
on this homes.
I just don't know how much you can see when you go for a,
I think you just have to drop in all unexpectedly a lot.
so many people when they put people in the nurses home, they never see them.
They don't go and see them.
That's right.
They never go to see them.
That's right.
I've talked to many, owners of places and say that nobody even,
think nursing homes some are good
I have to say that.
for the most part I truly believe that the parents would be better if they were with the children.
I do too.
Or if they could be real, real nearby where they could see them everyday or so.
I know Governor Richards is really upset about what she's finding in the nursing regulation in Texas
maybe we'll get it improved.
I hope so.
very difficult in the first place to make that choice
to have them go there.
it's tough I'm sure.
if you find out that they are not having good care, I'm sure that it is just,
you'd pull them out of there so fast.
that would be devastating I'm sure
yet if you didn't feel like you could be a good caretaker I don't,
it's a very, very hard decision I think.
It is a tough decision
it's one that needs a great deal of thought,
and prior probably.
I think that's right,
and especially if you're not a person that is a medical person maybe or something that the person needs medical treatment.
I know a friend of mine who had a father, she brought to her home, to live there,
he needed the medical treatment
she had a nursing person come in three times a week help him out.
that might be a partial solution,
or something.
I personally am for the trying it at home caretaker part before I think I'd ever,
I would hope we could do that,
and then go from there.
think we kind of are along the same lines.
We've covered a little bit
it's good to hear from you
Good to hear from you.
Have a good,
Have a lovely day.
Have a good lif ,
Have you faced, elderly care yet, nursing home care for any of your parents?
Unfortunately, yes.
in fact, tonight I had the dinner with, my three brothers and our wives
we were talking,
we had a review with the nursing home staff.
My mother's in a nursing home.
we had a review today
a few things we had to do that , are part of it that you don't really like, , making decisions on living wills and
extended care, that type of thing,
I'm very familiar with it
it's not something that is,
I never thought I'd have to go through this kind of experience.
I guess we all do.
I think sooner or later,
both my mother and my husband's mother, we had to end up putting in nursing homes
they were to the point that they only lived, both of them, about six weeks once they got in.
believe that was one of the hardest things I ever did.
In my life.
it just, it's absolutely devastating.
What have you found in dealing with the nursing homes?
the horror stories you hear about them I think are true.
Yes .
looked around
my wife has looked all the ones in the area .
the one she is in now, there's a lot of drawbacks, a lot of things we don't like.
it's no different than every one.
And, the cost of it, the, three thousand dollars a month
when you think about it, for what you're paying a hospital for
It's not that expensive, really.
a little bit of difference the two between my mother and my mother in law.
theirs both ran,
I think my mother in law's was fifteen hundred
my mother's was two thousand.
this has been five years ago.
one of the things that, I had discovered is that if they knew that I came in there at all different hours, they got much better care than if,
when I started out with my mother in law, because she was in there first, I
would go certain hours
they knew.
if I'd pop in unexpectedly, I discovered,
a couple of times with my mother in law, I would catch something not being taken care of.
And, would have to rate,
I got to where, I knew then when my mother was in the same time all the time.
Because they would,
when I was looking for the nursing homes, another thing that I learned,
we had my mother all set to go into one
for some reason I just went back, and on my own went around the different floors.
I saw areas that they had not shown me
they did not come across as well
I'll be darned.
as, what they had originally shown me,
we did not put her in that one.
We put her in another one that went a couple of times
when they weren't expecting me and saw, and, was much, better pleased
with the situation.
is the whole point.
You've got, you've got to shop them.
you do.
I know my mother's a unit that's mainly Alzheimer's
we're convinced that she probably would be better off in a geriatric.
the fact that these people up and around,
it's reminds me too much of an asylum type s ,
it's very, very,
Does your mother have Alzheimer's?
who knows.
They call it, dementia.
we don't know.
mean she does not know us anymore
whether it's Alzheimer's or what it is
nobody really knows,
it's, basically the same.
her health is not that bad.
Although she has gone drastically since last,
she had been in a retirement community
somewhere in the back of her mind she had it that she would live with her children.
we just did not have the capabilities take care of her.
has gone down steadily since she has been in,
she's been in the nursing home now for, I would say about three months.
Did she know that she was going to a nursing home?
I'm sorry?
Did she know that she was going to a nursing home?
as far as she knew, she was going to a hospital.
And that handle a hospital
we says, you know, mom, better, if you get better that you could come out.
what kind of car are you going to buy next?
one of the cars I'm thinking about buying next is, a nice, safe, small car,
the reason being, is we just purchased a van a little while ago because we have
a big family,
we use that to get back and forth and haul kids around and
so forth,
we have another four door car that I drive to work,
I think it'd be more economical if I were able to (( )) a smaller car
and, cost much with gas.
That's true,
that's true.
are you looking at?
I'm really not looking at anything for a while,
when you're driving down the road you see all these pretty new ones that are out,
you think, I would like a new car.
yeah .
I think I'll be driving mine about two or three more years anyway.
the cost of new cars recently are extremely outrageous for the
they are.
(( )) .
I sure do like the looks of that new Diamante.
That is a pretty car.
the looks also of the new Mazda
that's pretty, too.
that they have,
costs of a new car and those new models are extremely out of our price range right now.
they get pretty expensive.
they do.
The last one I bought, I bought a,
a Town Car,
it was a demo, returned
I got it with I think it was fourteen thousand miles on it
and nearly ten thousand dollars than what the list price was.
you can't go wrong with that kind of opportunity.
I was really pleased to find that,
bought it for cheaper,
I was looking at a Honda Accord, a brand new one
I bought the Lincoln Town Car for just a little less money than what I was going to buy the new Honda Accord.
you get a much bigger, better
the thing about it is
comfortable ride.
they give you that ten,
that hundred thousand five year warranty
where it only costs you twenty five dollars to have anything repaired.
that's fantastic.
That's real, real good.
I have really been impressed.
I said, I probably never be able,
to find another one that I can afford,
do you,
I have loved this car better than anything I've ever driven, because you can go on the road and get there
you're not even tired.
Very comfortable, smooth ride,
it gets like twenty six miles to the gallon on the road.
it does?
It sure does.
unbelievable for that size of car.
kept telling me that,
I thought they're crazy,
I took it over to Boozier City
it did it.
That's great.
That's great.
That kind of gas mileage, kind of hoping for on our van.
that's kind of what we've always been told, they'll do,
we hope for it,
it never happens
does get good gas mileage.
that's excellent.
Most of the time when I don't go anywhere I can drive it for three weeks and from work, and then fill it up,
does it, need a lot of repairs?
Is it a very reliable kind of car?
I haven't had anything,
I've taken it in twice for just really minor things,
it cost me the twenty five dollars.
really something really silly when we first got it,
we couldn't get the light,
they have all these lights in the car
it has this fancy little light that gives you a reading light for the passengers in the back seat
we couldn't get the light to turn off.
we kept trying,
we went out to dinner with some friends,
it stayed on all night,
just shining right down on them,
dear .
we couldn't get it to turn off,
the next day my husband goes out there
he tries to get it off,
we turn the knob, in the front that's supposed to turn the
lights on and off
we turned everything we could,
he took it in,
they said, you just have to press the switch.
He says, I've pressed every switch in that car,
I can't get the light off,
it's broken.
they took it in and charged us the twenty five dollars,
they called and told us though, that all you have to do is turn the off switch,
they showed us where the switch was.
They charged you twenty five dollars just to tell you that,
thought there was really something wrong with it when he told them he had already done the switch.
they probably went through the,
done the right one.
I see .
it's right on the arm rest in the back
we didn't know it was there.
the guy hit it with his arm when he got in the car
And found it right away.
we thought, it was broken.
we've had just,
I guess it's been in two times.
I've had it three years now.
it's been in two, maybe three times.
it's just been real minor things.
I think that, you have an excellent deal then,
company is able probably to offer that kind of warranty on the car because they know it's so well built that they don't expect any kind of major repairs
That's right.
whereas with an awful lot of other lower quality cars you would be getting repairs after repair after repair
those companies wouldn't be able to afford that for that kind of extended warranty or warranty at all,
That's right.
an enjoyable car.
Like I say, I'll probably never be able to have another one, because I think we bought it for about sixteen thousand,
Yes .
I said, I'll never find another one for that price.
not at all.
they keep going up,
I'll have to enjoy it,
we're on, recycling
I am not real well informed on exactly what Richardson does.
I know that ask us to bundle our newspapers,
we do that,
we recycle our aluminum pop cans and stuff.
I see.
now Plano has quite an elaborate system, don't they?
they do.
it started out several years ago when they put these, collection sites
near a WalMart, near a football stadium and the like,
they just couldn't believe how many people were going out of their way to fill these things up.
These huge dumpsters were being filled up matter of a week.
they knew that there was something going on here.
they started looking into programs,
what we have now,
changed the whole way that they do garbage in Plano.
Instead of collecting plastic bags of garbage two days a week, they make a collection on Monday for yard waste,
the yard waste has to be put in a special bag that's a decomposable paper sack
it's a pretty good size.
It's maybe the size of two or three, grocery bags.
we put that out by the street,
they collect those on Monday.
on Wednesday, we put out two containers that they gave us.
One container's a huge, green, monstrous thing that special truck comes by and hooks onto the side of it and flips the container into the back of the garbage truck.
that's where you put your regular, garbage and trash.
also, that same day, you put out a small tub,
it's maybe two feet high and three feet by two feet wide,
you in your aluminum and your milk jugs and newspaper,
they have a big truck that has maybe five big doors on the side of it,
they throw the different stuff in the different doors.
that's a neat system.
it is.
apparently it went off pretty much without a hitch.
were a little tough in getting because of something to do with the Persian Gulf war
the engines or something were being shipped over there for something or other.
it does work pretty well.
I know our son and daughter in law live in Plano,
I know they have commented on the system.
I don't know that they know that it worked that way,
they have the two separate containers and stuff.
I noticed something interesting last time, I guess two Wednesdays ago when they were picking up,
I happened to be out there in the morning when they were picking up tub stuff,
the man who was doing the separating, when he was done emptying the tub, he took a little electronic reader device off of his belt
he read the bar code that was on the side of the tub.
they must be collecting information about who does it, and how often.
that is interesting.
I wonder if that means that if you don't do it
do you suppose they will come and knock on your door and,
don't know,
I think that's a really interesting question.
is interesting.
will you be penalized if you don't.
Will you,
seems farfetched only because there's no law that says you have to buy a newspaper
or pop cans or milk jugs.
it's possible that there is a person in Plano that doesn't buy any of those three things, and therefore wouldn't have.
That's true, except that it's hard to imagine, when you have, cans, from market and,
vegetable cans, and et cetera.
they won't take vegetable cans.
they don't take vegetable cans.
the aluminum pop cans.
This is just their aluminum cans.
then yes,
they have,
that's interesting.
I wonder,
what they're doing with that.
Wouldn't you really like to know?
I would.
Someday I'm sure we'll find out.
I'm sure ,
if nothing else call the sanitation department say, okay,
what are you doing reading ,
tell me your feelings on recycling.
a good thing, or silly.
I think it's a very good thing.
helps if the city is giving you a nudge to do it
because I think there are a lot of people that don't do it,
I can't say that my husband and I are conscientious.
We got started on the aluminum cans because our, grandson was collecting them, to raise money
and stuff for an organization he was in.
we started collecting them,
now he's through,
kept on
it's interesting, too, that to Plano at Plano Road to, just inside your city limits, to,
Dump them off.
turn them in
that is interesting.
to dump them in.
I'm sure there's bound to be some here in Richardson
we just haven't really seen them advertised or
the Pl ,
the Plano newspaper day, in fact, has little list of all the recycling centers for all the different things.
They publish it every single day.
that's interesting.
and phone numbers, that kind of stuff.
Richardson, making that big a,
on a scale of one to ten where do you stand and why?
I guess I stand probably ten for no, restrictions.
I, recently just moved to Texas from, South Dakota and Nebraska,
I guess in terms of gun control I've always, been raised with the, idea in the Constitution that, citizens had a right to bear arms,
I realize that probably way back when when the Constitution was written it probably regarded, more, of a national defense, than anything else,
on the other hand, too, people then, needed to use firearms for, survival in terms of, food
I was raised, hunting all the time,
I lived on the farm, and, enjoy hunting
I guess I have, some problems with, being restricted to, owning a gun for, hunting purposes mainly.
it scares me a little bit to think that they would begin restricting gun control to the point where, eventually we may not be able to have that right any more.
understand that.
I was raised in Oklahoma,
of course, being Oklahoman and Texan,
the hunting and everything,
I used to (( )) things in my father and my husband having guns and all,
to be all in favor of it,
starting to get really scary with these gangs.
Yet I think I would vote a one if I thought that it would be nation wide and they can guarantee no one would have a gun, no crooks, nothing.
because I know that's not going to happen, then I have to probably right up there about an eight .
happens everywhere,
I guess we're pretty naive coming from small towns, in the midwest and then, moving to a larger city where there are drive by shootings
there seems like killing for no reason at all,
it just seems like in the past three or four years it has just gotten so much worse than it was.
There's always been a certain amount of crime in urban areas,
I know we lived in Chicago for seven years,
of course it was definitely there.
when we first moved here, it wasn't as bad as this.
just getting all of a sudden so much worse.
I don't know whether it's due to the drugs and the, drug kings that are here and Jamaican drug kings coming in.
I don't know whether that's it, or street gangs.
I don't know what the answer is.
I know that it's scary,
yet I hate the government constantly telling me what I can do and what I can't do,
that's basically what the gun control would end up being.
think so,
there's always the old, saying that keeps coming up that if a person wants a gun bad enough get one,
it's very true.
It's not the law abiding citizen that, dangerous with the gun .
It's the ones that are going out and stealing it.
I said I think the only way I would be in big favor of gun control is if they could absolutely guarantee that nobody would have them.
I think that would almost have to go with armies, too.
they'd have to be almost world wide, which we know would never ever happen.
that's for sure.
even if you said, okay,
armed forces could have them,
some idiot would come out and sell it to somebody on the street to make a quick buck.
I suppose, years ago, way back they had the revolutionary war and people decided that they, were fed up with the government,
if they didn't have a way fight back they would have been in big trouble.
That's very true
very true.
Who knows,
we maybe want to overthrow the government .
the way things are going.
I know,
if somebody doesn't do something.
law that they're putting into effect that you have to wait X number of days before you can, carry the gun, or the gun?
they introduced some gun control back when I was a teenager, I believe, in terms of, every gun you had to be licensed, I believe.
that didn't bother me, too much,
I guess it depends, if there are some statistics that show people, commit crimes on the spur of the moment.
I guess our topic is about movies
what is coincidence,
we got a baby sitter
we went to the movies that past weekend.
so did I .
we saw CAPE FEAR.
I heard that was excellent.
It is.
Is it?
It's really good.
I wanted to see that .
I was deciding between that and, MY GIRL
my boyfriend and I went to see MY GIRL.
how was that?
it was excellent.
It was a really, really good movie.
I'd recommend it.
I heard that's, a movie that, you really can't take children.
Is that true? .
I heard the opposite that, you should take children to see it.
there were quite a few, kids in there with their parents.
I don't know, though,
heard that, and then what you just told me
because, the little boy dies.
It was sad.
It was really sad.
best friend, this little girl, deals with his death
and children should deal with death.
it was really good.
It was sad, very sad.
I want to see that one.
CAPE FEAR more suspenseful.
It was really suspenseful.
that's a real good movie to see.
I heard it was, sort of not, too violent,
it was kind of gross, kind of like, SILENCE OF THE LAMBS,
was kind of,
I don't know,
it's kind of both, I guess,
as bad as SILENCE OF THE LAMBS.
it's just as suspenseful, I think.
was a real good movie.
we saw BEAUTY AND THE BEAST .
Because we have two kids.
And FIEVEL GOES WEST .
I've seen, previews for them on T V,
boy, so long since we've been to the movies,
rented some videos.
I like to rent movies, too.
I think the last one I rented was, MORTAL THOUGHTS
with Demi Moore.
didn't see that.
that's okay.
That's pretty good.
and, WHAT ABOUT BOB?
I have seen that
at the theatres,
we rented that one.
was cute.
I guess that's about it.
Have you rented any movies lately?
the last movie I rented was THE HARD WAY with Michael J. Fox
that was good.
We rented that one, too.
I liked that.
I like Michael J. Fox a lot.
He's one of my favorites.
I like his movies.
do you go to the movies often,
not too often.
hadn't been to the movies for a really long time
since last weekend.
there's been movies out that I've been wanting to see.
I just, don't get a chance to get out and see them.
we have two little kids,
it's hard for us to get out and go to the movies.
We have to dig up a baby sitter
I see.
that's only the only time we can go out,
, our time is scarce.
we t , we, we're, we're big movie people
we try and do
know about the last movie I've seen on T V that was real good.
I watched that movie with, Barbara,
what was her name.
Bar ,
that, her sister got killed
she had a baby.
The husband was a dentist
he had murdered her.
pretty good.
Bertinelli, or what's her name.
Valerie Bertinelli.
I can't,
That's it,
yeah .
that was real good,
I saw that part series,
I heard it was a true story.
I think that was probably the last movie I've seen, too.
I saw that other movie about, MURDERER.
Did you see that one?
with, Judith Light?
Did you see that one,
that really good.
That was supposed to be a true story, too.
I did see that.
I did.
That was on a while ago, wasn't it?
I saw that.
Guess a couple weeks ago or something like that.
that was pretty good.
we have ,
see all the same movies.
I like, the true stories.
They're more interesting.
it's hard to believe that, this really happened.
I know.
Some of them are pretty bad.
We sure do have a lot in common.
If you're ever in town, we'll go see a movie .
Okay .
we don't really,
you all have, do you all still have drive ins up there
do you have them there?
we may have just a couple over here.
Okay Brian.
how you doing Kevin?
Fine, thanks .
glad to hear that.
I understand,
Are you a total banner?
Total banner?
believe that, the American public and I, as an individual and private citizen have a right bear arms and to have a gun as long as I, am responsible with it and protect the safety and welfare of my kids
so that they're not playing with it and so that they can't hurt themselves or anyone else playing with it.
I think that education with a gun critical and important.
however, I do believe that, guns ought to be maintained controlled that you can't go out and just buy one off the corner and do whatever you want with it because people that are angry or have concerns or want to seek vengeance right away have easy access to guns
in the heat of the moment, they can go and do some damage that can hurt themselves and other people,
on a scale of one to ten, think I would rate myself six or seven or eight.
I think that there ought to be some control,
I still think that, individuals have a right.
How do you feel about it?
let me make sure,
you think that, maybe a five day waiting period for handguns or that stuff would be legitimate?
I don't know if a five day waiting period would be legitimate.
might cool down some tempers.
I think one day would be sufficient.
The reason I say that is there is an awful lot of people who go to gun shows
if you see an awful lot of exhibits and things and if you would like to purchase a gun, if that five day waiting period were in effect, you wouldn't be able to purchase one at that gun show.
would be able to buy it,
they'd just have to mail it to you, I suppose,
I don't think you can mail through the mail.
I don't know.
I think that's the law ever since Kennedy was assassinated .
how do you feel about guns?
Let's see,
I think that gun control has come up because there has been some crazies that killed people with guns
I think that's the problem that we need to address is why these people want to kill other people rather than the instrument they particularly used in the assault
do you think that there will continue to always be crazies?
Then, how do you propose that we prohibit those types of individuals from gaining access to guns?
we have some laws on the books that, don't allow convicted felons to purchase guns, if I understand correctly.
I would agree,
short waiting period would be appropriate to, take care of the heat of the moment type things,
I think banning semiautomatic twenty two rifles is bit on the extreme side.
a total ban on guns would just leave guns in the hands of criminals who don't care what the rules are anyway.
feel there is a need in the world today to have automatic handgun?
The only purpose for handguns is to shoot people, in my opinion.
you could do it just for fun, kind of like a game,
I think that police, or law enforcement have a need because of the tight quarters they might find themselves,
the public, I don't know.
I think that I should have a right to own a handgun.
Not a automatic, semiautomatic.
not an Uzi .
I think a person needs a way of defending themselves.
You saw Indiana Jones,
the guy came after him with that big knife.
he took care of it,
just one shot.
that's true,
he, saved himself in the process also.
That's right.
how is work going?
Very fine,
They don't let you take guns to work, do they?
prohibited where we work.
Although down here in Texas,
you do have a right wear and carry arms with you at all times.
That's still
Can they be,
that's still, you can still do that down here.
Is it concealed,
does it have to,
you can't,
it should not
Has to be on the hip?
be concealed.
It has to be on the hip .
Has to be in sight so you're not, a menace or
Can a s ,
a problem to individuals.
How about where you live there in Utah?
Okay, Howard,
what do you think of our space budget
should we go ahead keep exploring,
should we call a halt to it,
is it doing any good?
I think that the space program has done a lot of good for the country.
I think we made a major wrong turn when we went current generation of space craft, the reusable ones, like they are now
because they have not proven as reliable as they should have,
I think some of the earlier approaches were in many ways.
However, we've gained an awful lot from the space program, all the way from remote monitoring to teflon to, some new space age materials, plastics and all that.
I think it's been a good investment.
somebody was telling me the return was about twenty five or thirty dollars for every dollar spent
which is amazing for any governmental financed
Wish our post office could do that .
I wish the post office would just stop raising our rates.
That's right.
I wish they'd just deliver stuff.
I think, though, we're finally starting to get over the fears and guilt that we had out of, Challenger,
I think maybe we can
pick up and go on now.
don't know.
I don't think we really have all of our act together yet as far as clear objectives.
I agree.
The space station's where we should go
I agree.
at this point.
Seems like that we've kind of gotten side tracked with putting all these different things up there to monitor
I'm in favor of, getting closer to seeing certain things,
I'd like to see them also back up there, see, what they can do. See about setting a space station up.
I'm all in favor of the space program,
I don't think we should stop,
I don't think we should cut the money.
where do you think we ought to go with it?
You talking about, a fully manned space station that we'll keep up there?
to see that.
I'd like for us to really find out more about the actual universe and get up there and see what's going on, even if, there's no life up there or anything,
who knows.
I would like to see them do something like that.
hate to see them just, keep getting diverted off to spying on other nations and putting up defense things
lose sight probably what they're supposed to be doing.
I think about half the nations now military related, are they not?
I believe they are.
It seems like high a percentage.
let's go back to our original thing with, our experiments and all actual exploring of space all that,
and, Russia, seemingly not going to be as big a threat.
it can't afford to .
Have you gone out to, Fort Worth to see the exhibit?
we were talking about that this weekend.
only going to be there a couple of more weeks.
We need to go.
We went,
we took our grandsons and went, the weekend before last,
it is marvelous.
it's really neat how have done it.
They have done a beautiful job.
Have they?
they have a, scaled down model showing and things run out there to it and how they,
all the things that are against the actual how they fall away from it,
and the loading of it
it's actually,
the smoke comes out like it's taking off.
It is really interesting.
maybe I need to run out there this weekend.
You really do.
well worth the time and effort.
We went, early on Sunday.
We got out there about, ten, ten thirty,
do you have to have tickets ahead?
Excuse me.
we bought tickets there,
if you have children, if you go to McDonald's, coupons, or did have.
they may be through with them now.
buy one adult
one child gets in free.
I think both of my kids are too old for that
they're both,
You have teenagers or something.
I had grandchildren and their grandfather and I,
their dad was at work
Did you,
the boys loved it,
they really did like it.
It's very impressive, I'm sure.
it is,
I felt the, six year old be kind of bored,
he wasn't.
Even the three year old enjoyed it
(( )) .
they of those moon vehicles
and had it so it looked like it was on the moon, and showed it moving around and stuff.
it was really neat.
that's something else.
The Russians have had for years now.
they had the Merv
see we've yet to keep anyone up over
over a week or ten days.
in going through it, I got the impression that actually they were farther ahead,
They're talking about, federal government, aren't they?
I'm sure,
actually probably any government,
the federal one's the big one .
think in the short term we should be doing improve it?
I saw a program
it said every time they cut, fifty five million dollars on a certain thing, then they brag about how much money they cut,
they go and spend that money somewhere else
that's why the budget is never balanced.
The Gramm Rudman Act didn't solve the problem.
They just take all the money that they say they cut
they spend it somewhere else
pad out their staff, or, spend it in bounced checks at the,
I'm getting disgusted with fact that they're counting a reduced deficit as being some big step.
first of all, already hit the largest deficit, this proposed budget has the largest deficit ever,
two, is as far from a balanced budget,
you reduce the deficit,
you're still overspending.
it's just the amount that you're overspending,
this is, for some reason, the way that the reporting is going on now,
it seems the goal is to reduce the deficit to some, still outrageous amount, .
I think in the long term something is going to have to be done with, sort of
it seems to be kind of inherent in the political process, right, that you've got, people, corner money for their state or for their constituents so that they can get reelected.
there isn't any sort of overall accountability,
I don't know,
suppose that the only kind of solution ultimately that we're going to have, is exposure and information.
I don't know that in general the American people are that interested, to listen as much,
you're going to have to know what people are doing, partisan self interested motives are
take it to task for it, because it's not going to get solved, if people are still trying,
like you were saying you say, hey, cut defense,
let me grab some of this money for my state now,
we can throw in some highway bill,
you can throw in other kind of thing,
it's a pretty cycle.
I don't know.
I think limit the Senate to
that's being batted around.
my dad was always a of that.
he felt that that would get people involved interested in being public servants as opposed to personal servants.
don't let them come back,
keep Congress to, two terms of two years a piece
it'll be overturning
they won't have the same people there all the time
all the special interest groups will have to renegotiate all of their
their payoffs and kickbacks
that'll keep them busy enough so that they won't have as much influence.
they're always trying to lean somebody toward one way or another, whether it's the oil companies, or the automotive companies, and the air bag thing.
The air bag came out, twenty years ago.
Right .
only now they're getting that put in cars.
the oil companies responsible,
The Valdez proved that,
the government doesn't jump on them hard enough to make them do anything.
It should have been done immediately.
that that's probably right,
in terms of long term, you just got to get people,
at one point, at least on a local level, going into politics really trying to serve the community
you don't expect to make any money out of it.
maybe you gain a little bit of local fame,
in a lot of work in exchange for that.
I don't have the feeling that national level politicians at all like that.
They listen to wherever the money is.
I think that the problem with having, junior people coming in all the time is that you end up kind of wasting a lot of time politicians
or people who don't know how to deal with it.
they're not as efficient,
that's for sure.
on the other hand, maybe that's,
All right.
we have small children, two and four
dining is very limited .
I bet you're McDonald's fan.
we're past that now.
We're a little sick of that .
Are you?
Gosh, where do you go, Whataburger?
we're more
Wyatt's Cafeteria.
is that right?
that way.
the kids just love everything that's there,
we're pretty fortunate.
Kind of, buffet style,
you can
go in and go out
the food's already served
you don't have to wait,
it's already in front of them when you sit down,
and things like, Souper Salads,
it's already prepared
and eating area that you just don't have to wait an extreme amount of time.
I can understand that.
three kids, too,
when the kids are small, if you going to wait, you don't go out.
No .
They won't put up with that.
We tried a Bennigan's one time,
it was terrible.
Course it was just probably one of the worst days to go anyway.
waited almost forty five minutes before everything was brought out,
you had.
to go home.
you had the kids with you?
they waited forty five minutes?
No .
We fought with them for forty five minutes.
I don't doubt that one bit.
we rarely go eat in those kind of eating, situations, any more.
we do love to eat out,
we do it as often as we can,
times that we do have baby sitters try and catch, some things that we normally wouldn't do,
do you like to go when you got a baby sitter?
let me see, for New Year's we went to eat at Uncle Julio's.
Where's that?
Never heard of that place.
It's, Walnut and Greenville.
What's the name of that again?
It's called Uncle Julio's.
are they, what kind of?
basically Mexican food.
it's supposed to be very similar to,
what is that restaurant off of Central?
Mexican restaurant off of Central.
(( )) .
there's a zillion of them.
Have you ever been to Mercado Juarez?
I've heard about it.
That's a good place
They've got one in Addison too, now,
the original was on Northwest Highway, just of Loop Twelve.
That's a good Mexican place.
Good, good prices, good, good food there.
If you like Mexican stuff. a good place.
We like, seafood, also,
ever been to Vincent's?
we haven't.
That's a good seafood place.
You ever a place called Louisiana Purchase?
this is in Plano.
They might have another one,
it's on, Parker and Central Expressway
Ca ,
I've seen it.
it's Cajun type stuff.
If you like it kind of hot, that
that is good food,
that's good stuff.
We've been to, Chefalia's.
It's basically the same thing, seafood
Cajun style.
Where's that place?
That's in Addison, off of Belt Line.
Belt Line and what?
it's right before Midway, it's
right at Midway.
And, excellent food.
We got this Premier Dining Card thing,
been going to all sorts of weird type places with it.
is that?
you get, one free
you pay for one now, and
type thing,
We've been barbecue to,
there's a Swan Club which is out Central and Campbell.
really nice.
your husband into taking you there some night.
it's not a cheap place,
it's very nice.
where is that?
north of Campbell, but, off Central,
it used to be a Northern Telecom Building floor.
I don't know what they call it now,
Northern Telecom kind of moved over in their own building.
a big, tall, it's the tallest building on the of Campbell and, just before you get to Campbell
it's in the lower floor,
it's really a nice restaurant
if you like Continental stuff.
tell him to take you there for your anniversary,
they got a place where you can dance, and all that kind of stuff.
my birthday's coming up,
There you go.
All right.
You got one coming.
I need an excuse .
Have you ever been to Ewaldes
there's, if you like Cont ,
like Continental stuff, myself.
My wife doesn't necessary like that stuff,
I like that.
that's down in Stoneleigh Hotel now.
that is really super kind of stuff, too. if you like Continental at all
that kind of stuff
either one of those two, you go through a hundred bucks without half trying,
it's place.
you don't have to spend that much,
I'm kidding you.
I pushed it.
how do you use your credit cards?
we use them for,
paying our gas and for paying, just about anything, because, we don't like to pay for our checks .
we use it quite a bit
pay off every month, though,
we never have to pay interest
get credit cards if there's a monthly, or a yearly charge.
We always get it through our bank or somewhere where it's free.
we never have to pay anything extra.
that's me.
I won't use one that I have to pay an annual fee
we just don't think it's worth it.
use it, to buy my gas with,
credit card, I use that,
my Emporium card and, Weinstocks card, I use that,
I'm like you.
I usually pay it off as soon as I get my bill.
Why I don't just write a check, I don't know.
don't do it either .
it's just really weird,
don't carry a lot of cash with me, because I'm
always afraid that someone's going to steal my purse.
that's how I fe ,
it's a rare day when I even have seventy five cents in my purse.
enough for a phone call
that's about all.
other than that, way I use them.
I know some people that uses them so bad that every one of them that they've got, charge any more,
I think that's terrible.
if you have good credit, it helps you in the long run when you want to go make a
bigger purchase or something.
if anything ever happens that you do need to, you have excellent credit,
it really does help.
I think it's more convenient, too, in a lot of cases,
whenever we go on trips, we always, use Visa or our Mastercard or whatever.
(( )) . Yeah.
we really don't have to pay for it out of our own pockets until about a month later
it helps us gain interest in the bank when we do it,
we come out bit ahead because we've been able to use whatever, first off, and then pay
for it later.
I think it's better to use credit cards, too, like I say, because so many people around any more that's watching what you're doing
if you pull a wad of money out of your pocket, they're going to hit you over the head.
even if it's five bucks, even.
I know.
seems like always watching.
carry money.
I'd just soon use my credit cards and
just pay them off,
also, did happen to steal your credit card, my husband was saying that if, you notice it within, I think it's twenty four hours, you can report it in,
said the most you'd ever have to pay is fifty dollars for them to cancel, whatever payments you had,
whoever tried to, credit it to the hilt, you'd only have to pay fifty dollars of it,
you can have your card back with
pretty good rating, because you can pay fifty dollars, but not,
maybe five thousand or whatever.
some of those stores don't even seem to check your signature or anything
I know.
I don't know why they don't, unless you have to spend a certain amou ,
I don't know,
I notice that some of them don't even look,
they just slide it in there and pass it back to you
I don't think that's right.
I think they should check it to make sure that the signature at least matches,
it's just a precaution for everybody.
let's see,
what else can I say about credit cards.
I also Discover when I can, because they give you some money back every year.
Sears Discovery Card,
is that what that?
I don't have that one,
we just started doing that,
you know, what
it comes in handy for when you're buying things like, tickets for the train or, airplanes
because they'll give you some money back,
it's only a little bit,
it's still something.
We got two fifty last year
out here and there.
your using your credit card you get a rebate or something?
a half a percent back, which doesn't sound like a thing,
add up everything charged up on the Discover card for a year
they give you a half percent of that,
that adds up to, two fifty or something.
I see.
that's what,
I know we're going to get back more this year, because spent a little bit more
they do it for how long you've been a member I think, too
I see.
they increase the percentage a little bit.
I'm ready.
All right.
Do you exercise, during the day time
or go to a gym or anything?
used to go to a gym, last summer,
then I started school again,
exercise as much as I'd like.
do enjoy, going to a gym and working out,
just I do sit ups sometimes before I go to bed or when I wake up,
I ride a exercise bike a lot.
I try to do it at night before I go to bed.
it's really weird,
I'll get down on the floor,
I'll holler and tell my cat Nikki,
I'll say, Nikki, I'm going to do my exercises,
she can be upstairs in the bedroom,
I don't know.
She knows what I'm talking about.
pretty soon, here she comes.
(( )) .
I lay out there in the living room floor and do my exercises,
I had a problem with my back,
when I went to physical therapy
they gave me some exercises for my back.
I just try to keep that up, because it seems like if I don't, my back gives me a problem again.
I try to do it every night,
that's good.
it seems like it's,
I can tell when I do it and when I don't do it
you know it's got to be good for you.
Right .
a long time ago I belonged to a gym
now I notice that small city that I live in, they do have gym that just opened up here about a month ago.
I was kind of thinking about joining it,
I haven't even gone down there and talked to them yet.
it does really make you feel good,
I like to bicycle, too.
that gives you, lots of exercise.
it does.
I enjoy that a lot.
I, bike in the summer.
I belong to a biking club here in Kenosha.
we go fifty to a hundred miles every Sunday.
my goodness.
, I try to keep up in the winter with the exercise bike, so, I, can be in shape (( )) .
otherwise you wouldn't be able to go very far,
I go with my dad.
He exercises a lot more than I do, though.
always exercising.
I'm not that energetic .
I get lazy sometimes.
like I say, I just do it at night,
try to get my stomach muscles toned up.
that's what I like to do.
because, boy, they seem like they really get out of shape,
once you get out of shape it's hard to get back into shape
every night
like I say, do that than watch television anyhow
Wow .
it's just kind of nice, and especially when I have my cat that comes down and joins me.
that is neat .
I guess that's about all I can tell you about my exercising.
I wish I knew how to swim,
I don't,
I don't go swimming.
I don't swim much, neither.
they do say that swimming is really, really good for you
for every part of your body.
did know how to do that.
If they had a pool here in Patterson I'd probably, put my bathing suit on and go down there,
they don't have a pool in this small city, either.
listen then,
it's been nice talking to you.
nice talking to you.
Okay then.
Bye bye.
Do you, do any woodworking?
I do,
I really love it.
what do you do,
for a hobby or for,
I do it for a hobby
I have my own equipment,
I have a jig saw and a scroll saw and, in the process of getting a router
I like to cut out my wood, and then tole paint on the items that I cut out.
What kind of things do you like to do with wood?
I'm not the one that cuts them out.
My husband cuts them out
he likes using the little band saws and jig saws
more than the stroll saw, because the stroll saw a lot slower
he's got a router,
now he wants a plunge router.
he cuts them out,
took a tole
painting class
to learn how to paint them right,
what we want to do is, make them, and then maybe take them to these craft shows or
flea market things if we can sell some of them.
I really like it so far.
that is fun.
my neighbor had a little doll made out of wood
I took a pattern off of that,
it's just a wooden doll with a painted face
make the dress for it,
you drill holes around the top of the head
stick in
the twine.
and tie ribbons around it.
those are so cute.
It looked really cute,
I've got a couple of those started.
They are really cute.
as far as wood work, that's all we've been doing right now.
really fun.
(( )) they have a really fancy boutique out here in Ogden, Utah
I just got back from that today,
if you could get your projects into boutiques, they are wonderful.
You could make a lot of money from those.
What do you do?
I wonder how you,
you just given them to them on consignment or something?
that boutique, they take, what was it, twenty percent of the sell price.
You would put your sell price
they would take twenty percent off of that
I see.
at the counter.
then at the end of the boutique, which usually runs for a week, then they give you what you earned .
you have to decide what your price is going to be
and then up it twenty percent so you can get what you need out of it.
if the customers are willing to pay it, then you get a profit.
these little things are so cute, though,
They are.
have seen those.
Those are darling.
I went through some of the books down here at the craft shop,
there's a lots of little things you can get to cut out.
In fact, I just sent to Shop Smith
back in Ohio for a rocking horse pattern.
that's what I want, is a Shop Smith .
That's my ul .
Gene's got one of those too .
does he?
that's my ultimate dream .
you're lucky.
he's retired now
I'm kind of semi retired.
My company went bankruptcy,
I'm drawing my pension from them,
I'm still looking for a part time
(( )) .
he has all day long that
he can, work on this stuff and do
How fun.
do cut outs like that,
he's got of tools,
how nice.
I'm jealous.
getting started,
these little wooden things, they seem to sell really good.
I know a lot of people that have gotten them,
My next door neighbor, every time she sees something, she thinks it's so cute she wants to buy it, .
I'm just hoping we can get some cut out and painted, before summer starts
because we don't want to have garage sales or anything like that
in the winter time,
how is the market for things like that in California?
(( )) .
like they go real good,
the country, anyhow, out here
I live out in the valley
country seems to be the in thing out here
everybody wants little country pieces.
anything that looks like it might be country is what they want,
They just snap it right up,
this little rabbit that I made in, tole painting class, is a welcome.
little wooden hearts holding it, in its hands
and then welcome written on those little wooden hearts.
preferred benefits,
I worked for a large corporation in the past
I think large corporations can give better benefits than small corporations because, right now I'm working for a very small corporation where the owner is right there
there is a lot of profit that's coming in
when it comes to, small corporations they seem to pocket it a little bit or whatever, or however you want to say it
the benefits aren't as great when I worked for a big corporation because the big corporations seem to look at its employees and say okay
we've got this amount of money,
let's put into this plan, this plan,
you got Four Oh One K plans.
You have, better vacation plans,
you have, just in general, maternity leave plans
kind of thing.
Big corporations are able to do that versus small corporations,
they just don't have the money or just feel that there isn't the need for it.
I've worked for both big and small
I've had a chance to kind of take a look at, the pros and cons of both.
H and R Block here in Massachusetts
for awhile.
the only,
they even hate to give out unemployment
at the end of tax season because
fairly, even though they're a large scale company, they're very,
the offices, the individual offices are very small
now I work for the Framingham school because I'm a teacher.
we have much better benefits, in the system.
We have a good pension plan.
let me see, we have a profit sharing plan to a degree.
That's pretty good for, being school district type program.
we have the eye glasses, the health care
and the whole kit and caboodle because what
they did is they threw all the town employees in together.
That's extremely good.
(( )) *
(( )) .
the small corporation that I work for. There's no pension plan
there's no type of, savings of any sort that the company will reimburse you for.
There's really,
I think you're allowed
It's not accumulative, type of sick leave
things like that.
I've been looking at big corporations and saying, the big corporation that I've worked for in the past had the pension plans, had the big care,
you had your insurance
you didn't have to pay in as much as if you go to very small place.
they don't have as good as insurance packages as big corporations.
The only trouble we've had here in Massachusetts is the town and state employees
have run into problems, especially the retired ones.
My father's retired from the town of Framingham
he said that they haven't gotten cost of living raise
in over
five years.
he said that's the only thing that really stinks as far as being retired
I hear that bill is in the Senate right now
it's, hopefully
will go through.
I think the schools are at, where the schools isn't just the school system
and not just the teachers.
They took in the whole town plus all
Is it a union?
we have the teachers union
which helps out a lot,
the town of Framingham pays the benefits
that's pretty good.
that's all the town workers, water and sewer
where it's a very large town,
it's should be a city
they kept it a town.
where it's extremely large, they were able to offer a little bit more which was
really great because we don't have to pay a mayor .
I know what you mean
that's true.
it does end up being quite a bit when you have to hire somebody for that position, sure.
most of town employees, as far as, electoral positions, are part time.
it works out good because we
reap the benefits of it
as far as shopping for a job, I'd rather shop for the benefits than the salary.
that's it,
I've kind of looked around, at that, too.
salary wise I don't think I'm making as much with a big corporation because I think when you look at big corps or large,
I'm talking hugh companies like Three M, Honeywell, Texas Instruments
Right .
I know people vacation times, and that I wouldn't even dream of in a small corporation.
You bring it up to the owner
it's like come on,
Partly it's because the owner wants to keep getting richer and richer.
Right .
of course, when it's a small corporation, it also wants to expand
that money is spent ,
I don't know if you feel the same
when it comes to telling kids that they have to do, two or three years of service into some kind of community, I don't know if that's appropriate for a government to suggest that and say, you have to do two years of community service before you can be a citizen
or, in the aspect that we're telling kids that this is what is suggested for you to do.
could see it as, maybe a course
to where a student would get credits if they were to be involved with some kind of community type of program
to me, that's fine to have a student do that for
to tell them that they had to do two years thereafter, post high school, of community service, not quite sure if that's appropriate for anybody to be telling somebody they have to do.
that's a good idea to have it as a study program for school where it be more on a voluntary basis
as opposed to, mandatory.
I kind of agree with that.
I don't think,
the same rights as anyone else
Right .
mandatory, other than, I guess, when you come to paying taxes or something like that.
if it's beneficial in some kind of way then maybe
people be more eager to do it.
And doing it for a purpose that they want.
The other thing is this,
I have thought about this on many times when you get these, young troubled teenagers that, don't have the perspective the community, a sense of community or perhaps the sense that they may have problems
there are other people out in the community that may have problems.
Then I can see it as maybe a probationary type of thing.
You have to do so much as far as in
community service now.
If they were, type of situation perhaps then they would have to work with the victims of abuse.
if, they destroyed some property around the, area, then they would have it and perhaps, work, for the community to beautify it or whatever
I could see that working in , cases where it might be young teenagers getting in trouble with law and teaching him that there is a whole community that is effected when they strike out and do their crimes or whatever.
they have done that
judges have said this is what you're going to get for or something,
you may end up having to do some kind of community service
I could see that as something that might occur in the court system for those that are troubled,
that's a good idea.
I think they should have more programs like that.
I think, us being taxpayers, we pay for, people that's in jail or
in trouble anyway.
We sure do.
they should be programs set up by the government that could utilize those forms in different areas .
agree wholeheartedly.
the thing is is that's not enough of that kind of stuff going on,
like you say, is a lot of crimes and stuff or misdemeanors
why have someone in or two for a misdemeanor.
sometimes, putting them in jail doesn't really help
because there's nothing in there that would re ,
rehabilitate them
when they get out, they,
because they have this stigmatism of being in jail.
there's a lot of anger, especially if they haven't went through treatment
they dealt with other people in the, system of prisons which, always deal with somebody that's a little bit worse than yourself next to you or whatever.
I would say the crimes would probably be,
if you went in for a certain crime, there might somebody that has done a crime even worse than what you have,
you're dealing with people, that may, be an influence later on
an issue of anger would be is that I went to prison for a year or two
I didn't get any rehabilitation
then again, those that have physically assaulted somebody, that's extremely tough to put them into some kind of program out in
the community if they're of a violent sort and to say ,
I don't know about you,
I work outside the home
in fact, I'll be leaving very shortly to go to work
I work different shifts so are pretty much a later shift to where the family time.
when my husband gets home, home with my daughter alone
a couple of hours later I'm home.
I don't know,
I'm finding that more and more people that I talk to, there's less and less family time available to them.
it seems that your employers seem to be taking more and more time away from the family.
if you do have any time, it's kind of like on a rush cycle that you have to get so many other things done, to maintain your home and maintain the things outside your home try to have that relationship with your children,
a very hard juggling act.
I agree .
I look at my daughter
she's now,
I keep saying jeez, I don't have that much time with her .
she's growing fast
I know that I have three children.
I stay home.
I don't work.
I know that must be really challenging to, try to juggle a job also your children.
I know my husband, if I were gone as much as he is
Yeah .
we wouldn't have the influence on them that I would want to put on them.
I also notice that the children that come over here to play
that go to daycare every day
they don't like to be around adults.
They don't want to play around adults.
They don't want to be around you.
They don't want you to tell them what to do.
They want to do their own thing.
they're the very same age as my children.
I'm finding as I volunteer up at the school, I just, being,
I'm not educated at all in, really detecting this
I can talk to the teacher and tell them, on a pretty good basis, after I've worked up at the school for a couple of weeks
which kids go to daycare and which kids stay home.
you can just tell in their personalities and how they respond to the adults home and the ones even that are at home that are getting the love and attention that they need.
Not that the kids that go out aren't getting that
it's just a different,
more use to being with their own age kids
they're not use to being with adults and to responding
to adults.
(( )) ,
I think the trend in the United States,
I feel really bad that it's turned so much
I think so too.
to where the children are,
In fact, I spent the first three years at home with my daughter,
guess I felt fairly fortunate that I was able to do that.
I did notice the difference between those of infants being placed in daycare
I thought to myself, how can a mother place her child at the age of six weeks or four weeks or two weeks or three weeks,
whatever the employer says you have to be back at work is basically when you have to be back at work, whether it be six weeks or three or four.
But how these women must feel to place their children into care
it's our society saying yes,
It's a little bit financial type thing
if you look all over in the other countries, like Europe and that, their standards of living are a lot less than what ours are
that's part of it too.
like my husband was saying, maybe some of the problems we brought on to ourselves is that these women back in the nineteen fifties, were staying at home with their kids and then made the decision, jeez, I'll go out and get a part time job.
Got a part time job
financially, they got themselves into I'll have the boat,
I'll have the car
it's nice
really have done it to women of this day and age too,
as, it almost takes two people to bring in an income to support a family now
It's hard.
It really is hard.
I know that my husband and I have to do a lot of sacrificing
to keep me home.
I did it
for three years
it cost us a lot of financial problems doing it
pretty soon, you're at the limit where you've got to say okay, you've sacrificed for, so many years at home
you're not getting any further, along
you have to make that decision to go back to work part time or go back to work full time
you have to make that decision
it's a tough one.
I think
one of the things that people look at too though, is, their time with their children
I think with working moms, if you can get to give you almost a rotation like they're going to do with year round school where you work,
what do you think about it?
I like growing choi , the choices you have in nursing homes now, whereas have only, you put,
people got to the point where they were debilitated and couldn't take care of themselves
there was no other choice.
You couldn't take them in your own home,
then they went into a nursing home.
maybe you lived too far away to care for them,
your daily job or whatever prevented it.
I like the choices you have now, where they can go into an apartment type setting and independent life style, but assisted care.
if things deteriorate, they can go to a second level which is, where they prepare their meals for them
they still live somewhat independently
they have people checking on them and making sure they have hot meals.
And then where the same community a lot of times will also have the third level, which is full care, in a wheelchair or where they're in a bed,
they can't get around
then they have full care.
I really like options now,
I think about it more often because my husband's parents very active right now,
they're seventy five seventy two.
that comes up somewhat more often in my thoughts as I see these things
because of their age.
I know people are in all three, and people that work,
I know someone that in all three different stages like you said.
I have known, people close to me that have been in all three,
I have seen them go from where they're in an apartment building,
call it,
we have high rises,
it's just for elderly people,
one of their spouses has already passed away.
it's really nice for them because then they're with people their own age, and people that have gone through things exactly what they have gone through.
really nice to go and see them, where they can still get around and everything,
they still, do their own thing,
really nice to see them because,
I had a great aunt,
she lived with us for, three months, she's starting to get Alzheimer's disease.
I know I have a bunch of younger brothers and sisters,
I know it was hard for me as well as it was for them actually sit down, because she doesn't like doing things that the younger kids like doing.
And to actually sit,
it's really nice to see that.
that's some of the things I would find important before would look into that for a person, is like you're saying, a good mix of people who have the same interests.
the programs,
types of programs.
They have several areas.
They have one area in town where the people,
I guess a lot of it comes with money.
this one area is a bit more expensive,
the people who probably are living there have had more money in their life.
things that people where they have similar interests.
Like you're saying,
and the programs that they have, some of them will have dances once a week
some of them sponsor different crafts,
they go to the arboretum to see things,
they make sure that if they want to go to church, there's a bus there.
someone will transport them to a specific church, even though thirty minutes away,
metropolitan area.
Yeah .
a lot of these places churches or individual transportation.
something I'd look for, something that would make me happy personally if I had to live there.
necessarily like it
because they're not in their own home.
I think those kinds of things, to make it more homelike and to make it more, enjoyable for them. be one thing I'd look for, along with the, health care aspects
to make sure clean and that they had good doctors and nurses.
I'm in college,
only twenty one
class last semester,
there was a girl in my class who did a speech on home care of the elderly.
I was so surprised to hear how many people,
whenever they're in, the older people, they're fastened to their beds so they can't get out just because wander the halls.
they get the wrong medicine, just because, aides or whoever just give them the wrong medicine.
many of them, are,
Are overmedicated, too.
awful to hear some of these people really went through.
I forget the percentage of people she had said,
research on it and everything.
that's one of the things we don't think about as we get older, and money that it now requires to, be in one of these places.
Because some of these people that are just on social security,
and if they don't have any living relatives,
perhaps they never had children
if their children, passed away before they did
they can be in some places are not good.
have very care
care that they are getting, the people who are giving it at a minimum wage,
care as much.
like you said, easy on themselves to the point where they're putting people in bed or overmedicating them so they'll stay in one spot and not do anything.
That certainly would be something watch for.
some of these places can even be two and three thousand dollars a month to stay in, (( )) .
I know,
they share a room,
it's just a little cubbyhole,
they share it with another person,
they're still paying that much.
you've got to really strike a balance in you need, and then afford at the same time.
I've been lucky,
my mom's, parents, they're both eighties,
I was just home for spring break
my grandma maybe we'll just sell the house.
She said, it's getting too big for us to take care of.
I was like, no,
stay in the house as long as you can.
there are other communities, too, that aren't necessarily a nursing home.
I had an aunt who lived in a small town in Texas that, was in a,
housing division.
Each person had their own little bitty house
that they had built,
it was, supplemented,
most of them were on social security,
they got some kind of supplemental aid besides from the state government.
it was this little bitty one bedroom house,
it was a separate house,
they had a living room, and a bedroom and a kitchen,
and a bathroom.
they had people who came in who, supervised, houses,
were fifteen or twenty of them all right together kind of like on one block.
they had supervisory,
wasn't a house, really,
more like, a headquarters
It sounds like, an apartment or som ,
or something, anyway, where staffed it three shifts a day so that they could ring
could come to their house.
always cooked,
then the choice,
they lived in their own little house.
They had their own possessions still in there,
they could make their own breakfast if they wanted to, and their own dinner,
they always had somebody come in for lunch.
the yard.
They had people who did the yard,
they had a maid that came in and cleaned everybody's house.
they didn't have to worry about that.
compromise, especially, because she felt like she was still living in her own house.
she still had her own couch, and her own bed,
really helped a lot,
she was a lot more comfortable,
she didn't resent (( )) having to be in a situation, because she still had a lot of her own possessions.
we've run into a lot of problems where our relatives were,
I've lived here for thirty years,
we have nothing else to show for our lives,
we don't want to leave.
we've run into a lot of that.
it would be hard to.
why this,
that way, too,
it helped that she got to still be in a house and still have some of her own stuff.
I guess
it was a pilot program I think, where she lived,
it's probably not widely available.
That's what
I know we have an ol ,
we call it an old folks home,
it's basically a nursing home too,
everyone has basically their own room.
none of them have cars because they can't drive.
if someone would come to get them, they're allowed to leave with them,
there's a staff there that makes supper for them,
each person has a chore,
maybe Wednesday night it's George's turn to set all the tables.
it's really nice because that keeps them going, too, rather than just sitting around.
I know, our youth group goes over
we play bingo with them and,
That's good.
stuff like that.
Everybody needs some sense of responsibility.
An if it's just a little bit.
just to keep them going.
more like living house where it's your turn set the table, like you're saying, or whatever
instead of being waited on hand and foot all the time.
that would be nice.
I think before i ,
right to just put someone in it.
I think they would have to agree to go in it.
unless they're at a point where they're mentally
incapacitated .
Like you're saying with Alzheimer's and stuff, they're going to be some people who have to be there
whether they want to or not,
that's when it's important to really check out the medical aspects of it, in something like that,
that they'll get the kind of medical care overdoing it.
Without doing something them still to make the staff happy.
I forgot all about that that it had to be pressed.
as far as,
don't want to get in the habit of watching a lot of T V
because we both were raised, that way, where our parents sort of stuck us in front of a T V to be the baby sitter.
we just don't want that.
We want more communication and interaction, amongst us as a family.
we both like sports,
we figured, better way to get out and, be together as a family
and also, have it be good for you.
plus, to cook,
that's something we spend time together too, is, cooking and, preparing meals and stuff.
for family.
I'm the third oldest of twelve children.
(( )) .
my gosh.
like I said, I,
I'm only twenty one.
I'll be twenty two next month.
there's nine that are younger than me.
My youngest sister is five.
like I sa , I don't have any children.
I'm just engaged,
I'm getting married in October,
we haven't discussed this at all .
long way down the road, right.
now I've noticed that while I'm at college, and when I go home,
I'm really close to the younger ones,
when I do go home they enjoy just laying around me,
if we do watch T V at night, they just enjoy just, laying on top of me or something.
They like that.
as far as that goes, we play games,
I play Old Maid and Fish with them,
play board games,
when it's ni ,
I'm from Pennsylvania,
when it's nice out, we go outside,
we like to play kick ball and softball and stuff.
We do a lot of that.
in the summer seven of us still at home,
all seven are in a sport,
also (( )) the girls are in softball
the boys are in baseball.
all summer we live on hamburgers and hot dogs and sports,
that's it,
not doing any kind of sport thing you go to one of your sisters' or brothers'
sporting events.
And sort of be there with them.
we go and watch.
good, too, as far as entering,
you're, you're participating,
you're not,
at least you're encouraging them on and stuff
even if our kids, get into sports that we're really not interested in, them, to know that we're still there
so to speak, as a family.
it's funny because, my mom and dad both were kind of athletic.
They both grew up on a farm,
although, it wasn't them playing I notice whenever I was playing softball and such, my mom and dad got into it more than I did.
they'd be in the audience screaming and yelling,
Cheering you on and stuff.
A lot of times the parents get into it just as much the kids,
I found, a lot of times when we went on to tournaments and stuff, it was really funny because the crowds would who can scream louder, and everything.
it's really pretty funny to see my parents get into it,
they're not really even participating.
would be fun.
Boy, have a lot of experience as far as, different ways a family can interact do things together,
as far as,
go ,
if you're not,
i ,
what if,
do people go off in their own little groups with that many?
did some people go to their rooms and (( )) ,
one down thing about having that many people in our family is don't have any privacy when we're at home, because you couldn't possibly have a house with twelve bedrooms.
like I say, next month,
I'm closer to the younger kids than I am the ones my own age.
that's, I think,
that's because all have their own little thing to do,
the younger kids are at home,
I like to spend time with them.
when you were growing up around, what did you do?
We were all pretty close when we were younger.
I see.
now that they've all sort of moved off,
now that we're getting older, our own direction.
do you think, even,
what did you do when you were younger,
did you go do the board games and stuff,
you still did what you do now.
had blocks and stuff,
in the winter when it wa ,
we couldn't go outside because of the snow and stuff
would, clear out our basement,
we would do, just, even stupid things,
we try hurtling our couches and stuff. and.
we would just run and jump over the couches.
to see who could jump over,
We just made up our own stupid little games.
And hide and seek,
we have bigger house than a lot,
our house isn't the average small one.
we could play hide and go seek in our house and even stuff like that.
had a lot of games and things you played
even when you were kids with the ones that you,
pretty close together.
sister that's closest to me, we're only fourteen months apart.
just one alone,
real spread in age.
we were all pretty close where always had a buddy to play with,
Gosh, twelve,
pretty common up there, in,
not at all.
Not at all .
many people that come from families that large any more.
husband's mother came from a family of thirteen,
that's his mother
their Catholic *
I'm Catholic .
that's it then, I think,
probably maybe
do you see yourself having thirteen kids
not at all.
or twelve kids?
Not at all.
when I was younger I used to say that I would like to have five.
I've even cut that down now,
to me five wasn't even a lot, because I was just so used to twelve.
it's so expensive, man.
hard now to have twelve children.
I would think for your parents hard even nowadays, just to raise twelve kids.
Would be, shoosh.
my oldest brother, twenty four,
he put himself through college,
there's a sister older than me,
she's still living at home,
she works
I think she even gives mom and dad a little bit, of rent money.
I'm putting myself through college,
I'm getting married in October,
my fianc3e and I are paying for most of the wedding.
my brother right behind me, he moved out,
he has an apartment,
he works,
the next one down is in the Marines,
he's out of the house.
it's kind of like they don't,
sometimes I think maybe the larger families create more independence in the children though,
think they do.
you don't expect anything because there is not enough to go around for everybody
kind of have your own independence on going out and getting it yourself,
if you really want it.
I find it a lot when I'm up here at college because I've always had a bank account,
I've always had my own checking account since I was in tenth grade.
I would work in the summer,
there's a lot of kids up here that would have no idea how to even do a checkbook or,
manage money.
my roommate's laughing me, because their schooling's paid for.
Or manage money or know,
know, money.
how to get a job or just when you get a job, what your responsibility is.
Are you going to blow all that money,
how easy it is to blow money you earn.
my mom and dad, whenever, we would go out and we would get a summer job,
we would start blowing money,
my mom said, that's stupid for you to be blowing money.
She goes, okay if your going to blow your money on other things, she goes, you can just pay for your life insurance.
all graduated from high school,
we all got,
covered under my mom and dad's life insurance because I'm still in school,
I have my own policy, too.
I had a poli ,
my mom and dad got it set up, helped me to get it and everything,
I have my own policy,
I pay for my own life insurance too.
you've really got responsibilities.
my mom and dad, because there's so many of us, and because of the way the laws are, now, if we want to drive, we have to pay for our own insurance on our cars.
my mom said, that's silly to let one of the older one's drive it,
if we were in a wreck, you can be sued for anything now.
she said that's really not fair to the younger kids.
If we were careless and was in a wreck and they got sued
they can take everything away from my mom and dad,
the little kids would have nothing.
agree with her.
don't know.
Wh ,
we want to drive, we pay our own insurance,
really, I think, sometimes there's an advantage,
sometimes it's good to have a bigger family because it does make you more independent.
It makes you know that you can't take anything for granted
that when you get something you're lucky to get it, so to speak
I don't know,
is hard, I can imagine, on your parents, ...
you watch DAVID LETTERMAN?
our favorite T V show,
I live in a dorm
our favorite T V show is CHEERS.
that's pretty awesome, too.
I watch it every now and then.
That's hilarious.
we try,
here they show it, every day.
serious .
on Thursdays is the night where the new ones come on.
that's cool.
we watch it every day.
don't watch,
what we do is, we stay up till around one thirty,
they show the TWILIGHT ZONE at one thirty,
we just stay and watch that.
TWILIGHT ZONE rules, man.
The what?
TWILIGHT ZONE rules.
That's all.
to live in the house that the guy owned.
Are you serious?
it was all full with, shelves everywhere
we didn't have enough books to fill it up
That's psychedelic.
do you like, why do you like DAVID LETTERMAN?
he just, totally sarcastic and hilarious
I don't know,
I'm a lot like him in a way,
he's got curly hair
so do I
do you watch SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE?
He's got what?
Curly hair
so do I,
hey .
Hey I got long hair,
wait .
how long is it?
I don't know,
the other day I went into a bar
this guy asked me to dance.
All he saw was my hair
he goes, do you want to dance.
I turn around and go, what!
He goes do you want to dance.
I go no,
he goes I'm sorry.
I go, yeah,
you better be.
I go,
That's hilarious.
you better be
okay, wait
do you watch SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE yesterday?
with the,
who was on, the music people,
wasn't that Fishbone.
I saw that,
it was awesome.
I didn't see the rest of it.
you missed WAYNE'S WORLD.
Are you serious?
WAYNE'S WORLD was pretty cool.
They're awesome.
let's see,
what else.
walk in the room we turn on the T V
because we don't want to do anything like study or anything,
that sucks.
do is turn,
when I was in high school I used to do, my homework in front of the T V set,
kind of annoying
that's cool.
Kind of annoying do homework,
Trying to write an essay, you start talking about, IN LIVING COLOR or something,
I don't know.
bogused on all my homework
it really didn't matter .
B S
that's the way to do it.
I know,
I did that all through college
it worked .
works for me.
let's see,
what else.
the news we don't watch,
because they're boring.
I watched through the war,
there's only one.
especially the war,
it was like, seen this episode before,
I know,
I guess they think that people don't watch T V,
if you watch it for, five minutes, then it repeats everything over and over and over.
I know.
It's, like, man.
in North C ,
thing is, here give you local news, okay.
a house burned down in this little town.
were here,
I go, what happened worldwide,
It's like, even though two hundred and fifty thousand people died somewhere else, they're not going to tell you,
they're going to spend more time on doing thing cross guard who's a hundred and five years old,
than they are on anything else,
let's see,
what else.
we watch, for example,
do you watch STAR TREK?
I haven't seen it in years,
I used to.
I used to hate STAR TREK.
was, in high school and junior high school, I used to hate it
then we started watching it.
the new ones are pretty cool because,
because they got things, that, fuck with your mind.
that's cool.
what happened is, they have this hologram right,
where you walk in
you can program
everything looks real
you can touch everything and stuff.
Are you serious?
it's only a program
it's really great because sometimes all these things
sometimes it's not,
That's cool.
it's something to pass the time,
Sound like (( )) .
till we do
we watch football.
basketball's cool,
football kind of after a while,
Which basketball?
Which basketball?
College or,
I kind of like college better,
it's more spirited (( )) .
two teams of the A C C going there.
We got Duke and North Carolina.
nothing to do,
for example yesterday
girl goes, do you (( dares )) want to go to a picnic, right.
I hear no, *
woke up,
we had a hangover and everything,
we just woke up
we're watching T V,
I go, no,
today we're just going to dedicate (( ourself )) to watching golf
and bowling,
was, like, God, do you guys really watch that?
I was,
a whole golf tournament, it's,
for example, baseball,
I hate baseball,
me, too.
Somebody told me, that, you can watch baseball,
the actual play time that there is
is five minutes.
the play time is
pitches the ball and it goes to the catcher or pitcher pitches and it's hit.
That's true.
that's, five seconds for the whole play
that's true.
that's it.
maybe a home run could last a little bit longer because the guy has to run around all the bases,
it's, it's like that,
when I went home that's all, they had on T V
entire games of baseball
they're going my God.
T V in Argentina's really bad.
you come over here?
because, I wanted to go to school here.
that's cool.
How long did you live there?
they have better computer science up here do down there.
Oh .
works for I B M,
we came up here,
came to the United States in nineteen seventy six,
seventy seven
we lived here for about seven years
then we moved back.
then I said, I'm going to move back up there to go to college.
That's cool.
He goes, okay.
he goes, but do it fast,
I did my undergraduate in two years.
we've been talking for five minutes.
That's cool.
That's the only obligation we have.
tell your dad that now he owes you five bucks.
no doubt.
All right,
nice talking to you.
you, too.
Bye bye.
Hi, Kay.
I, was thinking about salaries and benefits and
was wondering what's the most important thing to you besides a salary in a job.
just recently graduated from Rice University,
we were going through a lot of job interviews and things,
some of the things that were important to me, when my husband was looking for his job, was, hours,
he'd been in graduate school so I was used to his not being home at all .
I didn't want him to have a job that would make him kind of be on call all the time, and have to go in at any time, and
even on the weekends things.
that was important to me, and also insurance for
we'd like to be able to take care of our medical needs and not be thinking so much about whether or not you can afford it.
I don't ever want to have to worry about that.
That's real important to me.
we have Aetna
that's the insurance that we have right now.
Us, too.
When we were in Colorado, they had, a different type of H M O there that I really liked a lot.
It was, not that kind of H M O s where you have to go to sort of clinics,
this was just an H M O where you could go to private practice doctors and to the regular hospitals and all that,
it was with a certain list doctors that, participated
in the H M O,
that's nice.
then you only had to pay the,
for us it was a five dollar co payment every time you went to the doctor, and, three dollars for the prescriptions.
that's good.
I especially liked the prescription, especially since my children tend to have ear infections all the time .
prescriptions can be very expensive.
I know.
We just went through that ourselves.
We just, are fifty dollars for this series of antibiotics and things.
I know,
especially if you get, what is it, Seclor I think that
that just about breaks the bank right there.
it's pretty bad.
were interested in having dental insurance, too,
having been in school, we kind of put things off
and only went in when we knew there was a problem somewhere and stuff
we wanted to be able to go in and have our teeth cleaned and just checked all over
Do you have the basic plan or do you have other one?
We have,
we're at Aetna with an, ex ,
we have insurance is separate.
Is that what you mean?
I don't think it's the basic,
I think it's the other one.
The one that's you get additional,
they'll pay a little bit more
I think for the different procedures.
We just have the basic right now,
for most things it tends to cover it .
We don't too many major, expenses at this point,
we have been able to find that will accept pretty much whatever the basic plan pays.
A couple of times we've had to pay, I don't know, three to five dollars but
that's not that bad.
that's great.
we need to go shopping for dentists and things like that too.
let's see,
besides insurance, other things that we looked at,
my husband does not like to commute
very far,
we don't like him to be, having to drive an hour to work or something .
we don't like that either .
we kind of looked for office would be located
Is his office in Plano?
the one that's
just about fifteen minutes away.
that's not bad.
especially when they finish all the construction out here
we didn't want him
we had some job offers in the New York area,
we thought, he would be really commuting
you're not kidding.
not only is it, trouble to have to drive, but it takes time away from your home and your family when you're out driving.
That's right.
that was something that was important to us,
like I say, we kind of felt deprived that he had been in school and been away from us for so long ,
we were anxious to do everything we could to have, made us be more together,
what other,
can you think of another thing that you guys looked at
those are some of the things that are very important to us too.
like, other benefits that are provided,
the athletic facilities that you take advantage of
I think pretty nice,
I have to say that since we've come here we haven't done it too much though,
we haven't enrolled in too many of the classes any of that.
a nice benefit to have.
that's true.
That's really important.
also, what, opportunities there would be for advancement, I think, we looked at besides just, what salary you would be having now.
could, your salary increase
somewhere to go.
one of, I think, the hard things right now,
they're going through some tough times
to say the least.
I know many of us are thankful that he still has a
that we can make our mortgage payments
that's really true.
one of the drawbacks, I think, of working for a big company, is often times, you do have to follow pretty rigid, guidelines,
an employee is especially exemplary, I think it's often,
in a smaller company it's a little bit easier for them to say, Hey, this person did a wonderful job, give him a big bonus kind of thing.
A lot of times
smaller companies have bonus plans, where I think in a large company it's hard to do that because there're just so many people to deal with
you have to have guidelines, for salary increases, and things like that,
that's one of the things happens you're dealing with a large company.
we also were interested in, being sure that he felt like he liked the people that he would be working with
and that there would be some opportunity for friendships that way, so that you would feel happy going to work every day
Right . *
Rather than thinking can't stand these people.
that's something that was important to him, in thinking he could work under.
How long has he been in his present position?
just since last summer.
It's only been, not even a year yet,
I was going to say , it sounds like picked out a lot of good things, for him, to choose in a position and have a lot of thought put into it.
In a big company, though, you also get moved around a lot .
He may be having to drive over here to Lewisville some time.
we may be having to drive to Plano,
you never know.
You never know,
we're hoping that that won't be the case .
think one of the most deciding factors of why we chose, this area is that, my husband was raised in Irving
have a lot of family here, his side of the family.
when we were down in Houston, we were isolated,
it's not that far, but, people would ha ,
we didn't have anyone in town that was our family.
although we had really good friends and we had church and school support and things, we were anxious to move close to family members, just because we wanted our children to know their grandparents and things like that.
We're very,
that really made a big difference, I think, in why we chose T I, and chose to move this way.
We're very far from our families,
it's really hard.
I have little children,
they were the only grandchildren,
families really far away.
In fact, this is a little off the topic, but yesterday, my mother happened to be on a train going from Phoenix Chicago
it stopped in Dallas for half an hour, so I loaded the kids in the car,
we went downtown, and met her train for half an hour, and brought her a little snack and an Easter basket
that's nice.
I think made her trip a little bit nicer.
important to, want to be close to your family
just for us to snatch a half hour like that
is a special occasion for us.
that's the same,
it's nice.
way we felt.
It's nice that you can have your family close like that.
We're really enjoying it.
I wonder what it would be like,
I wanted to be close to family, but I also thought it would be harder to be close to family.
sometimes it can be.
it's turned out really good,
I think that, we're really satisfied with that choice,
we, kind of felt like, it was worth it
That's good.
to us.
children just ran out the door, so I need to go check on them .
Okay .
I've really enjoyed the conversation.
I have too.
nice to have met you,
you have a good day.
you too.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
Okay .
If you want to go first, go ahead.
that a woman's role has come a long way.
We have gone more into the business aspect I don't know, working more,
even gone into more the labor aspect of it also.
With the pay and everything,
I feel that, we've missed as far as the top jobs go.
the higher echelon.
if you look at most corporations, there isn't a woman, that's on the board of directors, or that type of thing,
they are mostly all men.
There may be a few, but very incidental.
I really think that it will be a long time, probably, before we see that.
In one sense, I'm an older person, in my fifties, so I feel that we've lost some things in the sense that women have to work today.
that they are not in the home by choice anymore.
It's mostly,
even if you want to say home, you really can't.
a lot of times you can't,
it's gotten to be a two income family to just survive today between taxes and the cost of living,
I don't think raises have kept up with, a lot of the stuff, as far as your medical insurance and just groceries and gasoline and all,
I think that we did come a long way in the sense that out in the labor force, but I think we've lost something too.
my mom, she's a housewife,
there is twelve kids in my family,
my mom never could really work, because she was kind of pregnant from day one.
She never really had a chance to work.
She worked before she got married,
doesn't believe in,
she's very old fashioned.
She doesn't believe in the woman working unless she has to.
That's what I mean,
there's a lot of truth to that.
If you are not going to have a family, then that's fine,
then, a career is a smart choice.
I think it's great, but if have a family, I think you owe the family a responsibility.
to have children and just get a day care or someone to take care of it, and not really have the bonding process that takes place with babies and stuff,
think that the mother and the child lose,
I think that's why there is so many problems
with kids today,
they don't have the family roots anymore.
I'm not saying it's totally gone, but it's nothing like what it used to be.
in that sense.
also thinks,
she's kind of right with it,
when both partners of the marriage work, she feels that that's taking more away,
that's increasing more unemployment for people that need to work.
like the men that don't have jobs,
there is women out there just because they want to do it, she said, they could stay at home,
That's right,
they don't want to take care of the kids.
And the house and that kind of thing.
That's very true, but then they shouldn't have a family.
That's what I'm saying,
I think it's great that women have a choice today.
That there are ways to prevent families,
basically there's contraceptives and
all kinds of ways to prevent pregnancies.
There is no need to have children if you don't want them.
What do you think about that,
do you think that, F
what do you think about the women that are not having families because they want to continue their business?
That's fine,
the freedom of choice.
I agree with that,
anyone who has children that doesn't really want them isn't going to be a good parent.
I shouldn't say they are not going to be a good parent.
They won't be a caring parent.
they won't have that,
they won't be as good as they could be.
that's what I mean,
they'll feel like it's a job.
It's not something that they really wanted.
I had three children,
wanted every one of them.
I'm not sorry I had any of them,
I worked third shift for a good part of my life just so I would be home with them.
I had to work, but I tried to make it as painless as possible.
In fact, at one time I worked as a second shift,
one Saturday morning we were all sitting at the breakfast table,
the kids were talking, daddy this, daddy that, daddy this, daddy that,
I was sitting there.
It was like I didn't belong anymore.
it was because I had worked for about nine months,
when they were coming home I was going to work.
I wasn't there at supper time or bed time,
they couldn't tell me what went on at school because they would be coming in the door,
I would be going out.
we were,
I felt I was losing my family.
that's why I said that's it,
I either have to quit or, try something else,
I went on third shift.
I worked that shift for eleven years.
Bless you .
Just so that my kids would have me at home.
I feel that's very important,
it really is,
it's too bad because mothers miss out on so much too.
in the sense that we've come a long way,
we've sacrificed a lot to get there.
I really think that like after the second World War when women went to work in factories and all that, that was out of necessity, because the men weren't here anymore.
then it got to be a point where they got some independence.
they just enjoyed the income, the extra.
A man can afford the necessities, a woman affords the luxuries.
I notice today kids,
we had apartments before we had homes.
we had to walk before we had a car.
now kids at sixteen years old, they have their birthday,
what do they get,
they get a car.
I know .
to me, it's like we've lost our values in this country.
We really have,
not trying to be, a prude or old fashioned or anything, but don't think unless you earn something and you've worked for it, and you have a sense of pride about it,
while I did this no one gave it to me.
You will take better care of that,
you will prize that possession.
More than someone handing something to you.
it's just like college too,
I think that if a kid goes to college, and you can help them, fine, but I don't think you should pay the whole way.
my parents, there is no way they could afford to send twelve kids to college.
Of course.
so far there is only two of us that have gone,
my older brother has paid his entire way,
I'm on my,
I have six weeks left
I paid my entire way,
that's the way it'll go down the line,
I don't have a car because I'm paying for college,
if I want a car,
my parents always said if we wanted a car, we paid for the car, and we paid for our own insurance,
I think that's right
I'll bet your values are a lot higher, and your self esteem and way you, think about things is probably
a lot more common sense
than these kids that don't have that responsibility.
I've had my,
I know kids up here that have their own cars
money is just given to them,
they still get their allowance,
they are twenty years old and they still get an allowance.
I have held a summer job, since was in the eleventh grade,
I have had to take care of my own money,
have my own checking account,
I pay for my own life insurance,
I know a lot of kids that don't even know,
I tell them I pay for my own life insurance and their mouths just drop to the floor,
they probably don't even have any.
if they do, they don't know it, .
that's what I say, be so much better off for it as you get older,
a lot of kids resent things that parents tell them and stuff,
it's because you've been there.
And no one can tell anyone anything
I know.
you are going to find out for yourself,
I don't think you should just not listen to advice, even if you don't take it, just listen.
there is no harm in that, whereas sometimes you can't even get that from a kid,
Just attention,
what do you feel the changes in the future, with the abortions and that type of thing, women in politics and
president someday, maybe .
Actually I think abortion is going to take a turn where there is not going to be as many,
I think contraceptives are going to be more popular.
I realize that they are popular now,
I think, I really think people are going to start using more contraceptives
with the abortion, I don't think there is going to be as many abortions, but I don't know what women will do when they get into politics, about abortion.
I think it will be freedom of choice.
I still think people have a choice.
if you can live with it, and your conscience is clear
then all of us are going to answer to it one day, maybe.
Exactly, yeah.
Or maybe not.
I don't know.
no one has said for sure,
I think if a woman would get into politics or enough women get into politics, I think it will definitely be freedom of choice.
Which I mean I think it should be anyway.
I'm Catholic,
are not supposed to, say that that's okay, but I really feel that it's freedom of choice.
I do.
you as an individual, what you do, that to me is your business.
different circumstances call for different things.
that's ...
I haven't,
when the war was on I watched C N N and, NIGHTLINE
pretty regularly and read the paper and all
lately, the last week or two I guess with Easter ,
and spring break with the kids hadn't been thinking much about the Middle East and what's going on over there.
Have you been keeping up?
just really the last couple of days since U N debate or whatever you want to call it that, voted on whether there was going to be a cease fire.
I guess, the thing really isn't over.
had, I don't know if you call it standout or whatever
anyway they stopped and waited to see if Iraq would accept a permanent cease fire situation though.
As I understand it, from the Iraqi point of view this current cease fire thing that the U N, had set up, the Iraqis are probably not going to go for at all,
unless they're just absolutely forced to.
I guess, from what I understand the thing could just
Start up.
it could just, they could take off at any moment without, any local, congressional effort or anything else because, it's not really settled yet.
There's no official document signed or anything?
Not yet.
Not yet at all.
crisis began last August couldn't remember things that I had studied in the past in school and all
I got out my encyclopedias and tried to read about the history.
it was really, what I felt was kind of cynical
there just hasn't been any peace over there ever .
In thousands of years,
I don't know,
of history.
why they expect it's going to start this week,
That's right.
not people
it's not,
there isn't any real Arab coalition because they do fight among themselves.
they fight with each other
they have such hatred for, Israel
thing that's kind of interesting about this,
my sons in the Air Force.
he came within a quarter of an inch of going, to Saudi,
he ended up in Korea instead because of the way they split a transportation group out in Lubbock.
he ended up going to Korea
his buddies ended up going to Saudi.
he's still in Korea and his buddies home now .
almost wishes he could have gone home.
got it over with.
I just,
there's just no way for us to be involved over there and hope that there will be much peace.
I'm afraid that we would have to stay.
too, when this all started did much reading on the thing, was just, somebody's
you go back to World War I when the, Ottoman empire broke up
and the British and the French
and British and the French mostly decided to carve up that part of the world and call part of it Persia
and part of it Iraq and part of it something else,
split things along, geographical lines but they didn't take any kind of consideration into, social or cultural things at all.
the country of,
of Kuwait really doesn't make just a whole lot of sense except that it is an excepted place,
it's like any other country,
for whatever reason it's, it's actually there.
Iraq has had, designs on that place since nineteen twenty two
it wasn't like something that just suddenly popped up.
it's just that this was an excuse, to make some noise .
something that I read in the paper the other day that I thought was kind of interesting was that their version or vision or whatever the United States, now, is somewhat changed in that we won,
we are legitimate player,
in the game over there,
I don't think we can really understand their attitude because there cultures are just so much different.
we are now a legitimate player in the game because we came in with a certain amount of force and defeated,
Iran couldn't do it in seven years
we went in and did in seven days what Iran couldn't do in seven years,
Right .
that kind of ups our stock in there just a little bit.
It makes us more legitimate.
now what they're saying is that, since we won whatever we say goes because it's, a kind of a might make strike sort of attitude about it
we've got the power.
Which is why for centuries or hundreds of years the British and the French had so much influence in there
they'd go in and they'd win something.
they could call the shots for the, period of time until the next strong man came up and,
and caused problems.
I just,
I'm not interested in keeping big military over there and having to go and call the shots like you say.
I just would prefer that, sometimes we've said we're not interested in what other countries do.
other times we jump in and do things
while I'm glad that they,
it was important that area because of all the build up armaments.
I don't, (( )) .
I hope we don't try to keep, in there and try to keep our fingers in the pot and try to,
stay over there
we just don't want to send our people there and make them stay.
the, the big thing,
we still got a little bit of the old, Vietnam, problem, in the back of our minds.
we got this,
used to wars where you can get in do the job and get out.
Vietnam we never did get out, never did get the job done because they were too (( ham strung )) .
this thing
gave the guys, the power and the material and told them to go do it and they did it.
got in and got out.
I'm not sure,
big fuss that we're going to see now for the next few weeks I would think is, business with Shiites of all people, in the southern part of the country and also the Kurds
these people evidently are, being killed off by the thousands.
whether United Nations,
I don't think the U. S. will do it on their own
whether the United Nations comes around and says, hey, wait a minute we know this thing isn't, all that much over, we've got to go back in there be sure that this large population isn't just wiped out.
to be exactly what's happening right at the moment.
I noticed that.
I don't think there's much hope for a lasting peace over there like they,
expect. *
never will be.
the only way that you're going to have peace over there, we determine that we want to go in and wipe out every last one of them,
until we make a decision to do that there won't be peace but I don't think we want to make that decision either.
a little rough,
quite up to that sort of thing.
I guess I better go
I have a repairman just came,
Oh .
for my refrigerator,
that's fun.
I enjoyed the topic.
I hope you have a good day.
You too.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
like, I love to do, all kinds of crafts and sewing,
find that's my one release ,
What do you do?
I like to do physical things like sports.
I really enjoy softball
my favorite is volleyball,
I'm at school,
I'm in,
up at the college,
sometimes it's hard for me to do that,
I just, sometimes,
I like, just to get away,
I go to my room and I walk in, turn the radio on, or, just kind of veg out or something.
I have two small kids
don't have, much time go places and play sports,
I have to do something where I can do it at home.
just love to sew
a lot of my Christmas presents,
I love to do all kinds of crafts and stuff like that.
I like to do that stuff, but at school, I don't have time to do it or even time to learn how to do it.
I remember when I was in college,
I didn't have time to do that stuff either.
It was really,
but I have more time than I did,
a lot of my sewing I kind of do out of necessity,
I've got two kids to put clothes on,
have, I come from a family of twelve children,
when I'm up here, I really miss my younger brothers and sisters,
a change, because there's nine of them that are younger than me.
(( )) just to talk to my little brothers and sisters.
really miss them a lot
I don't,
I guess talking on the phone is one of my hobbies too.
I just, have, one brother and he's married,
they have a couple kids,
don't have, I don't get on the phone too much.
most of my stuff is just going pla ,
I enjoy going places with my kids
I do sports, but don't have a lot of time for them.
I like volleyball.
Of all sports, I think that would be my favorite, because I hate basketball
I'm not much of a basketball fan either.
I enjoy playing volleyball but I don't have a lot of time to do it,
It's maybe once a year or something
I, used to play it a lot when I was in school,
now that I'm married and stuff I'm really bad.
Nobody would want me on their team.
opposing teams best player, to speak,
I enjoy, just,
have varied interests and stuff
not that I like reading, but I do do a lot of reading while I'm here at school.
Do you like reading as a hobby?
I love to read, but don't have a lot of time to read an,
what reading I do, I kind of do because the necessary stuff
as far as fun reading, I maybe get to read the Sunday paper, but, that's about it,
I don't have a lot of time to read.
remember in college, I did a lot of reading, most of it text books,
keeping busy with everything else going on,
like to do,
I've made stuffed cows, dress, dolls,
they're like dolls,
the ,
you make clothes for them and everything like that.
have been real popular with my family.
I've had them calling up and saying, will you make me another one
I do things like that,
if I had more time, I'd probably do it and sell the stuff
I don't have enough time to do it to really, take orders on it,
it's like I can only do it when I have time.
I have a whole stack of material and patterns to sew up as it is,
Do you,
I know one thing that's pretty popular with the girls up here at college, and I make them also, is the padded covered photo albums?
Oh yeah,
I do,
I've done those too, before,
Those are real,
have of those that I've made as wedding gifts,
I made them out of all lace satin, and made them as wedding gifts and stuff like that,
Those are real popular,
in fact, I got some of those for my wedding,
I know they're real popular here at school, also.
those are fun to do,
just little things,
didn't have a lot of,
when I was in college I did,
I did sewing for other people when I had time,
like if somebody needed a bridesmaids, maids dress made, I'd make that,
that's about all the sewing I did,
I never had time sew myself a new dress or anything like that
I just kind of sew for my kids
that's about it,
I guess maybe we've the topic, pretty good.
I really don't have any other.
I'm not too much,
I don't have a lot of hobbies,
mine are just mostly, things I just do out of necessity.
it's been nice talking to you.
It was nice talking to you too.
Good luck in school.
Bye, bye .
Bye, bye.
All right,
do you do garden work?
As little as possible.
I'm a college student
if I do any garden work, it's only when I go home in the Summer.
where do you go to college?
(( )) .
Where's that?
It's about two hours north of Pittsburgh.
do gardening at home?
we go home,
we have a large family,
there's twelve kids in my family.
my goodness.
almost all our vegetables and everything is from the garden.
we have a pretty good size garden .
I guess you glad you got to go to college so you'd get some rest
we have a lot,
my mom likes flowers, so we have a lot of flowers too.
I had a whole bunch of flowers and things.
I don't have as many now.
We lived in the country
for a long time,
I had a whole bunch.
now, I work and I live in the city so, that sort a kind of hung it up.
I have a few flowers, but most of mine are in barrels and things like that.
this year I decided that,
my husband made a little garden out there with some tomatoes and stuff in it,
I decided that I don't like grass,
I don't like to have to have to pull grass
I decided that I would plant me a tomato plant in a flower pot
and see how it worked.
mine looks real good .
I've seen a lot of people that do that.
I've seen, elderly people
that really can't get out too much (( )) sometimes.
I have a great aunt that lives in a,
it's just like, a high rise for elderly people.
she does her own thing and everything,
she has,
it's like a little apartment building.
she has a tomato plant year round.
they keep it warm all the older people,
she keeps it year round.
I had never thought about that.
I could probably plant one and bring it in, just like I bring my plants in every year.
That'd be neat.
I got a patio,
I tried to talk my husband into just buying a whole bunch of pots .
And planting them all in it, because that's favorite thing, is tomatoes
to grow.
he said, No,
he was going to plant in the earth, like he always has,
he's always had a garden out in the country.
I think he kind of misses it a little bit, since we moved to the city.
I went ahead and planted one, and mine looks better than his .
It does,
you know what day lilies are?
Pardon me?
Day lilies.
Are they,
do they just come out in the morning then go
(( )) we call them Morning Glories up here.
These look like a lily.
they really look like an orchid when they come out.
That what the look like,
they only bloom for one day.
you'll have a bud the evening before,
the next morning as soon as the sun hits it, up
when it gets dark, it closes
that's it.
It only blooms for one day.
it's done, completely done.
they look like orchids, is what they look like,
they look like different color ones,
I have, yellow ones,
I have red ones,
I have purple ones
they have the real velvety looking stuff inside
it looks just like orchids in different colors.
That's what they look like.
(( )) really pretty.
I have a friend when I lived out in the country,
she had belonged to this kind of society that every year, or every so many months they would send you different bulbs that they came out with.
they were real expensive.
They were
the most expensive one that she gave me a bulb for was thirty two fifty for one bulb.
my gosh.
what she would do is she would plant them, and they multiplied.
the next year when she, weeded them out
so they wouldn't be as thick, she'd give me some of the bulbs.
I have some of the most beautiful day lilies that you've ever seen.
when we decided to move, it was really funny because, like I said, I had a whole bunch of different kinds of things,
I kept saying, I want to take a few of these, and I want to take these, and I want to take these.
My husband finally said, Look, are we going to take the grass? .
Can we leave the grass?
I said, Yes, we may leave that.
(( )) take the whole grass, the whole yard.
we had a tree that was seventeen foot tall, or something like that, that he said, No, no, I am not taking the tree.
every time we went outside, he'd look at something that was humongous,
we're not taking that.
the last day, he said, Can't we leave the grass,
I said, Yeah,
I think we will leave that.
That'd be funny.
I brought,
my kids, when they were little they had given me some azaleas
so I brought all my azalea bushes.
as much as I could bring
without, really tearing up their place.
just like,
the people that I knew that they would,
if I left one bulb of each one of them, by this year they'd have ten bulbs of each one of them.
it wasn't like it was going to be this big raw place or something,
it would cover it right up.
I just couldn't see it, going off and leaving everything like that.
this house, I really liked it and everything, but the yard was a lot to be desired.
there was nothing.
These people,
we have one ugly pine tree.
it is ugly.
I even tried making it look nicer,
I tied the yellow ribbon around it,
it was so ugly.
it did not help, let me tell you.
I took it off and put it on my door.
I did not want to call attention.
it was terrible.
really the plants that I brought over and put out here are just about all.
I don't do any of the mowing or, edging and all that
My husband does all that stuff.
that's because I'm allergic to the grass.
that'd be awful.
I love going out in the Summer in the grass.
Now I like to go to the beach where the sand is,
then it doesn't make me ill .
even up here at school, it gets hot, and we have the windows open,
they mow the grass up here sometimes six o'clock in the morning.
just to smell the grass, it's just,
I just love the smell of freshly cut grass.
I used to until I got so allergic to it.
I don't know if it's all,
I went and had some tests run and just about all the kinds I was allergic to.
it's not as bad here,
Saint Augustine, I think, is what we have.
it's not as bad as it was when we were out in the country.
out in the country,
if I went outside while he was mowing the grass, I was going to have a gigantic attack.
my gosh.
I get shots for it now, too.
That helps a whole bunch.
one good thing about it, I don't have to mow the grass
(( ))
that's really nice.
you said that you had a garden.
What all things do you plant in it,
do you like to plant in it?
the first thing we always plant is tomatoes
every year.
I don't care if we don't have anything else,
we're going to have tomatoes.
we plant cucumbers
do your cucumbers come good?
Sometimes when my dad has,
that's the one thing no one is allowed to touch except my dad.
He takes care of all the cucumbers,
he said the vines are just so,
at our house, as soon as you touch a vine, it's like it completely dies.
It must be the,
Sometimes we have really good luck with them,
then there'll be maybe two years in a row that we can't get anything.
Now something that grows like a weed here.
it grows like a weed.
We have to allow extra room for those, extra space,
they take up a lot.
between the rows and all.
we usually get,
if we plant, for every one plant we probably get fifty to sixty cucumbers off of it.
Holy smoke.
just pulling them as fast as you can.
We usually give them to everybody.
Anybody that wants a cucumber can have it.
we tried it, too, where you run it up a fence
we had some weird cucumbers because they grew inside the fence.
the little thing would be half on one side and half on the other.
my gosh.
it was,
they're so heavy,
they get so heavy they kind of weigh it down.
cucumbers here grow like crazy.
Of course it's real hot here too.
tomatoes grow like crazy at our house.
we have a section of tomatoes,
we put the tomatoes there every year, in the same section.
I swear we get tomatoes six rows up.
if we have any, the birds will pick or something,
some of the seeds drop.
Have you ever had them just come up in different places?
I know, we do that, too,
at the first year,
I was from the city when we got married,
the first year that we planted, I couldn't figure out, the,
the first year after
we planted them,
the first year, after we'd had a crop
all these little things
we had cucumbers coming up, in the middle of our okra,
I thought, how did this get here
I know I didn't put that seed there.
it was weird, but the birds had, evidently just deposited them for us.
sometimes, too, when we take out our garbage,
just dump it in the middle of the garden, after your garden's basically done
we're finding out,
we have peach trees in the middle of our garden now, because we took peach seeds and dump them there, whenever the garden,
like in the Fall,
now we have peach trees coming up,
All right,
do you want to start out?
it'll be real easy for us,
are you really?
the first thing we look for,
is if we can eat there or not.
Are you strict vegetarians?
We're not vegan vegetarians.
We do eat, eggs milk products.
I used to be a complete vegan vegetarian,
where I didn't eat any animal products at all.
really difficult in the area if you don't have, the products that you can get.
if you go out to dinner, not a whole lot of things you can get.
There's very few places could,
I think maybe if you were somewhere like California, where they have a lot more vegetarian restaurants
and stuff.
here, basically, you go to an Italian restaurant or you go to a Mexican restaurant,
you have a little bit more variety as far as the pastas or the
the corn meal,
or something.
wouldn't have the meat products in that
you have to watch that too.
of the restaurants here they will, l ,
you can ask them and they'll tell you whether or not they use lard or,
animal fat to cook with.
we don't really eat out too much.
tend to eat at home.
actually, I think we get a ha , we have a healthier diet than the average person.
How long have you been doing this?
I've been a vegetarian for, two years now.
My husband has been one for, just over a year now.
Do you feel that it has improved the way you feel?
Do you think?
makes you more aware of what you're eating.
have to be.
k ,
I think you balance the foods,
you're more aware of what nutrient, value each thing has,
and minerals.
you're just more aware of food for energy,
for energy sake.
I always thought it would be hard to figure what to eat if you were a vegetarian.
that's just it,
do have to figure it out.
get proteins and things.
when I was a vegan, it's,
you have to consider calcium and iron and
things like that not even getting through your milk products,
your egg products.
you don't eat any of those things.
If you don't eat any of those,
actually you can get everything you need through vegetables.
you actually you can get more calcium through leafy green vegetables than you can get through milk products.
Is that right?
A lot of people don't know that.
the thing is that milk products,
our bodies
the lactose,
that kind of milk, it doesn't,
tend to,
what's it called?
We don't synthesize calcium the
throw more of it off
same way.
our bod , out,
slough some of it,
send, we send some of it out because doesn't accept some of it.
gets rid of some of that, that we can't use, of some of the calcium.
Whereas when we eat, say broccoli, you utilize all of it.
You utili ,
body accepts
All that's in it.
all of the broccoli.
it's like,
it's like, a person using vitamins, as opposed to, vitamin supplements as opposed to eating regular food.
Your body just doesn't accept vitamins
and the minerals in the, the vitamins in, supplements that it does in regular food,
That's interesting.
feel much healthier,
much healthier.
I couldn't consider going back to eating,
After you have been on this.
I changed for ethical reasons.
my husband has changed.
He feels more ethically about it.
in the beginning, began for health reasons.
now feels like I do.
he looks at the things that he eats
he realizes what they are
before he eats them.
He thinks more about them, then.
he eats,
it as far as what it was I was eating,
as a living creature.
now we both think a lot of what is it we're eating in relation to what it's going to give to our bodies.
you kind of have a combination.
live in a farming community.
So, of course we have a lot of animals and that type of thing raised in our area.
we do too.
I was raised in,
we're in cattle country.
people here buy a half a cow
and put it in their freezer,
the way I,
believe you me it wasn't easy to give up ,
to give up a hamburger.
was one of my favorite foods, was a good steak or a hamburger.
I suppose if you really believe in something
You get adjusted to the taste.
adjust your life
your mind.
inside yourself it's not right.
you would have a little more trouble when you were looking for a dining area than what most
most people would.
we wouldn't have that problem, because we're not vegetarians.
what do you look for when you,
I think the main thing that I look for is, cleanliness, appearance of the people that work there.
And the, quality of the food that they serve.
you look for places that's established, you've been to before
are you willing to try new places?
we try new places
when we,
a lot of times we do eat where we know.
a chain restaurant
or something.
What the quality,
a lot of them are the same no matter where you stop.
we do, do that a lot.
I guess I'm getting
also I like to be served.
I like to sit down and have my, order taken.
As opposed to a cafeteria
kind of situation?
I suppose you'd say I,
don't know whether it's age or what it is.
I have,
I don't think so.
I think it's just your,
prefer to be waited on too.
I just,
if you're going to go out to eat, why not have the whole service,
Why not get the whole,
I guess because we don't go out that much,
I feel like it's a treat.
You should have a treat.
I like the light meals.
Not all restaurants have light meals on their menu,
Light menu, you mean like cooked light or,
L I T E, things that aren't as heavy a meal.
I see.
you get more, fruit and maybe cottage cheese or a chicken breast or things that aren't as,
they're not breaded
they're not fried
they're not,
Not a lot of gravy
and things like that.
it's not
all rest,
I like those too.
I like those too, because, you order a meal, you order their dinner meal, and it's like they're trying to find out how much you can eat.
I know
it's too much,
evidently people go in there and they're not satisfied that they'd been given enough and they complain
maybe they're afraid that people are going to,
complain or something.
I don't know what it is.
for instance, had a Scout dinner last night we went to.
serve you at your seat
the salad bar is included,
you have to get up for that.
they have so much food that end up eating much more than you need.
I think that's a shame.
I must admit, sometimes I do like a buffet.
I think that they just tend to make say, I've have got all I can eat
it's one of these situations where nobody's going to restrain what you eat,
the amount that you eat.
I think just tend to eat, overeat.
You can eat
as much as you want and you like the food,
a lot of times the foods,
(( Haas's )) carry a bread bar that is just out of this world .
they just,
fruit and vegetables
I don't know.
Th ,
y ,
I know I always overeat no matter.
I go with good intentions,
somehow along the way, when I come back to my seat, I have too much.
I eat it because it's so good.
at least it's fruit and stuff there .
Maybe it's not too bad.
I like reasonable prices of course, too.
I don't like to, go to anything that's real expensive.
I think that's a waste of my money.
Just for food,
it does seem like it.
international food,
we take,
Do you?
I like cu ,
we like Indian food,
I love Italian food,
We've got a good Chinese restaurant in town.
really like eating there
you don't get stuffed on their food it seems.
you can eat a whole big plate of their food, and you really don't feel like you've eaten too much.
You're full,
you're satisfied,
you don't feel stuffed and miserable.
That's one thing that I wish we had more of,
where we're from, pretty limited,
most of the restaurants American style food.
we don't have too many, w ,
you have to go all the way to Dallas.
it really is a treat,
we don't make a miles. Depending how far in Dallas it is.
what movies have you seen?
I have, seen DANCES WITH WOLVES, which is probably best movie that I have seen lately.
I do not go out to films very often.
as far as out of the house.
we do get a lot of videos that we bring in,
I see some that way.
I am not real current on films.
How about you?
I saw DANCES WITH WOLVES and, HOME ALONE
I hear that is really good, but I have not seen it yet.
It is.
It is about a little kid his parents go off to Paris.
forget all about him.
counts one of the neighbor kids instead of,
he is up in the attic asleep because he got in trouble.
she made him go sleep upstairs.
there is,
there is a couple of burglars, breaking into the houses in the neighborhood.
he hears them or something
he sets up traps for them all over the house.
Who wins?
he does.
I had heard people talk about it,
they say it was really cute, but I had not seen it.
we usually wait
it comes out on video,
we get it and see it that way.
that is, it,
movies are very expensive.
movie theatres here, they are six dollars, for evening performances.
that is kind of steep,
I think.
I don't know.
How much is it in Dallas?
it is six dollars,
you get, matinee prices.
You can do that, but it is difficult if you, if you work or,
that is taking the middle of the afternoon.
if I am looking for entertainment usually have more, time in the evening than I do in the middle of the day to, see things.
What do you think of movies in general?
As far trends?
I think they are a lot better were,
in the early eighties or SMOKEY AND THE BANDIT era.
When it was,
I do not think they were very good during that time.
At least
there were not as many good ones.
The quality I think maybe has improved in that respect.
the only thing that disturbs me is that now they think they have to add just a little bit of sex and violence in order to get tougher rating. Which suggests it will be more enticing to the, to the public.
a lot of times it is added for no real, valid reason.
which does not make,
I think SMOKEY AND THE BANDIT was a little bit like that.
DANCES WITH WOLVES did not seem to have anything added.
It was just all legitimate kind of, film.
that is where reason why I suppose it won so many Oscars,
it really was good even though it is such a long movie.
they said, "Oh, people be interested in a three hour movie." But it certainly gotten good acclaim everywhere it has gone.
it was shocking at the end too.
but much more true to life
I think the point.
That is right.
they do not have to keep making up stuff if they want to make something good.
I hate sequels too.
I hate these, number one, two, three, four.
Usually if a movie is good, once is enough .
Especially JAWS.
That was on Prime Time Television here, recently at seven thirty in the evening.
it was kind of shocking because that is a scary movie. And children, young children that movie,
at that hour.
I thought, would not have been the sort of thing I would have wanted my children to see at that age, when they were young.
here it was quite easily seen by anybody that turned on the T V.
which was a,
it was a good movie.
it was well done but, that is one reason why it was scary.
I do not know that I have seen any of the, sequels to that.
I think one is enough.
Just more of the same.
Yes, huh.
That is what people say.
In one of them they have a mother shark, destroy a whole, marina and aquarium.
Which is kind of far fetched.
just a touch.
the whole movie is kind of far fetched.
the whole idea behind it is far fetched.
They hardly ever play music when a shark attacks somebody.
too often .
That has gotten to be a whole camp now though,
If you hear that music, everybody knows what you are talking about.
It's funny.
it sounds like neither one of us are real movie buffs.
every once in a while, I go, but has to be somebody that I like
go see FIELD OF DREAMS when it was in the theatre because I did not know it was any good.
found out it was Kevin Costner when it was on, I guess A B C the other week,
then I,
I saw it then too.
then I really liked it.
It was good.
It was very good.
I have, teenagers in my house.
of course sometimes they rent movies and, have friends over or something.
sometimes movies are here that am not even aware that I could have seen,
my family tells me that it had been actually in the house before .
I had missed it.
I did see it on T V,
I thought it was good.
It was really,
Shoeless Joe Jackson really was a player.
I thought they made him up, and then I found out, after I saw the movie that, started talking about that scandal
anniversary came up
that was around the time of anniversary,
No kidding.
I did not realize that.
it was on the news.
the character that, James Earle Jones played?
I teach in school,
we are doing a book called INVISIBLE MAN by Ralph Ellison.
I wondered if maybe he was patterned after him.
I do not know,
I had not heard anybody talk about it.
he certainly could have been.
someone was a real activist but then took up the cause. kind of gave up, because he did not think anything was happening,
it was kind of fun.
I wondered who it was too.
I do not know for sure,
there are certain, qualities that suggest it could be he.
suggesting that this Ben was something of a recluse.
That he had stopped writing and had stopped,
that is true for Ellison.
wrote that one book and a few essays and that is about it.
has pretty much dropped out of public life.
he is still alive
is what makes it so interesting.
that book, have you ever read that book?
I d ,
INVISIBLE MAN.
What is that?
INVISIBLE MAN?
INVISIBLE MAN by Ralph Ellison.
It is an incredible book.
It, really is interesting.
I highly recommend it.
did they make the movies after that
the movie,
OF DREAMS came out after, that novel.
could easily have been patterned after him.
movie did not have anything to do the story that I am talking about.
I just thought could have been patterned after that,
character could have been patterned after him or someone like him, certainly.
Sort of interesting,
I guess we have talked probably our haven't we?
It was n ,
Very good.
It was nice talking to you.
Nice talking to you.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
Are you in the market for a car recently?
I just bought a car.
what did you get?
I got a nineteen ninety three Cavalier station wagon.
convinced you to get that one?
a friend of my father's, he'd driven it all over the country
and it runs great.
how many miles on it?
has a hundred and fifty three thousand.
it's still running real well.
two cars,
I have, my husband and myself and we have two sons who are drivers
one of which is eighty eight Plymouth Voyager Van,
we have,
about a year ago, we picked up a second hand, Audi
that was
we got that. (( ))
The major things,
the reason why we got that is we had had a Nova,
my son was driving,
someone came into his lane and hit him,
fortunately he was able to,
he out of the hospital by that night, but the car was completely totalled
a passenger in a car about a year and a half before that, which was hit by another car.
really nervous,
I finally said, I want a really solid car.
we found the Audi second hand.
I guess right now my criteria for cars is, being solid, able to take an impact
not going to be in the market any new car.
the things that I would want would be a solid car.
Another thing I'd definitely want would be anti lock brakes.
van, which is delight to drive, does not have,
I think the brakes on the Plymouth van terrible.
If the road is at all wet, and I'm,
I don't go all that fast, but just doesn't hold.
It doesn't hold well at all.
definitely want to get anti lock brakes.
I don't know,
do you have any particular things are priorities on your list.
I didn't really need power windows, but it has power, windows
and steering and air conditioning,
I guess down here air conditioning's a must, isn't it.
It has a stereo and a cassette player
he's told me it gets forty two miles to the gallon.
That's incredible.
That is incredible.
get about, van twenty eight.
The Audi does not have good mileage.
That's the one drawback.
It's a powerful car.
but it does not,
on a highway and I can get twenty, twenty one miles per gallon, I consider that
sometimes I've gotten twenty two.
It comes out around the eighteen or nineteen local driving
that's a real drawback.
I wish settle for twenty eight,
frills on that car are nice, but they're not necessary, for me
except air conditioning.
it gets hot and humid.
it's really humid.
air conditioning is a necessity for us through two or three months in the summer.
I don't need,
power windows are nice, but I don't need them .
Although I must say when you're driving in the east and there are all these toll roads, come into a toll road, you just push that button down,
it's real nice for that window to zip down and zip up, instead of having to crank it.
if you want to have open windows, to be able to op ,
if you're alone in the car
just to press buttons, and.
You don't have to stretch.
I've lived all these years without them,
I probably could have lived a little longer .
That's true.
one of the things that when we gotten a new car, and used car has it, is a sun roof
those are really nice in good weather.
That's right.
I guess if we get a new car, it definitely would have to have lock brakes,
I'd love to get an air bag
and a sun roof, just so it'd be a good solid car.
I guess that those are major criteria.
Everything else is, a luxury,
make the car more expensive, but they often add more things to repair when things go wrong.
if you were to buy what would you look for?
like you said, anti lock brakes and air bag,
really like to have a car that's dependable
you drive, like a American made car that's as dependable as Mercedes or somebody, that's,
Isn't that true.
funny, that you use,
the Audi's German, and I have to say, it has been pretty dependable.
sometimes, one advantage of an American made car, is if you get stuck anywhere, most local garages can fix you up.
they have parts,
something fancy, you get stuck somewhere off of the main area
you can be really,
are terribly expensive.
it jus ,
I shudder.
I would not get the Audi again, just for that reason.
I would love, I wish that, engineering would make something as solid as a German car.
certainly have the technology,
it's amazing,
when we bought this Audi,
everything is more solid in it.
you don't feel you've got any of the flabby plastic
I know,
I'm willing to give up a little bit in the mileage for a solid car.
I don't think I have to give up as much as I'm giving up.
do you need air conditioning down there?
we really do
even today it's supposed to get up into the nineties.
we've had eleven days in a row over ninety.
They've in fact had to excuse school down here because of that.
I enjoyed talking with you.
It was nice talking to you.
your car.
have a nice summer.
Thank you,
you too,
it's going to be a hot one.
bye bye
Bye bye.
Do you have any?
I'm trying to think offhand
I can't think of anything,
(( )) it's a real pet peeve of mine.
It seems do work during the day
when I'm home, I'm either cooking or running doing,
things or, laundry or stuff.
I hate when the phone rings and it turns out to be a telephone salesman.
Oh .
it's real,
the two pet peeves that,
number one, I really feel that that's home.
I ha ,
if I want something, I will get it.
I will go out and get it myself.
buy anything from a telephone,
I wouldn't,
I really feel my time and my space
by, interfering in whatever I'm doing
fr ,
it really bothers me.
it's a little bit like junk mail except you can't, ignore it, quite as easily.
try to be polite,
at the same point,
That doesn't always work.
I just say thank you very much for calling but I'm not interested,
I hang up before they can say anything.
it works very well .
Oh .
you don't hear, how,
they can say anything they want
it's just,
I just feel that's privacy.
a sort
you can prevent yourself from getting junk mail by getting yourself off of mailing lists.
I wish that there were a way that you could, number to the phone company and have a penalty for anyone who calls you to sell things,
from a busi ,
how do you get your name off the junk mailing list?
you, you do that by,
the postal service has some information which you fill out and they send,
it's for every company,
you can't do it for any compan ,
you can then send it
they can pro ,
they tell,
that company is not allowed to sent you any junk mail.
If you get junk mail on a regular basis from any particular company you can,
I didn't even know that.
you have to go to the post office and ask them for the form that you fill out get, junk mail from specific companies.
I wish there were something like that where you can call the telephone company
you could put in a registry.
anyone making these calls have to check that registry for that area
and is not allowed under penalty of, being reported or something to call you.
that would be one way of doing it.
I can't really think of anything that invades my privacy,
one of my pet peeves, is, when you have an answering machine and they hang up before they leave a message.
I can't stand that.
I think that is so stupid,
I'm guilty of that sometimes
I've called and there really wasn't any significant message
wasn't going to be available to be called back.
it was sort of like, the hell,
I'm not going to spend the time giving,
leaving a message,
I'll call later,
if I'm available.
The other thing there is recourse to and that's another thing, is when use your credit card and then they ask for a telephone number.
they're not allowed,
they're n ,
you do not have to give a telephone number.
I don't really like announcing in public
when you're sitting there,
my telephone and I don't like the telephone numbers can be used.
We once had a situation where someone was using a credit card number of ours and he actually had our phone number,
it turned out (( it had to have been )) my husband's office phone number.
to trace it, but we were able (( discard )) the charges.
it was,
I don't like how they a ,
realize that this is your identification
I worked with someone that got hold of his,
charge cards,
and his social security number.
same with my husband.
It was the charge card and social security number.
like, I don't anything over the phone because I don't want to give my social security number out.
you should never give the social security number.
you charge,
sometimes I charge theater tickets
over the phone.
because they pick them up at the box office we'll call.
that's the only thing I would ever have ever used it for the phone
that was because I initiated it.
occasionally I do order things from catalogs
over the phone.
again I initiate it not the company.
The other thing is though you do not have to,
if you're buying something in a store and you pay for it by charge and they ask you for your telephone number, you do not have to give it.
a law that went into effect, a year or two ago.
I never even knew that.
you can just say not required to give that by law
they won't,
a lot of stores will still ask.
the credit card company, accepts the charges.
it ,
a rea ,
the credit cards company's responsibility.
is there any,
wha , (( in this )) ,
pet peeves that you have that don't necessarily invade your privacy?
limited to the privacy issue, the invasion of privacy.
I guess, biggest one in terms of invasion of privacy. For people outside the family, of course,
I've got little pet peeves, with my family.
of course, th ,
I guess that just comes territory with a family that
(( does a mother can do )) some privacy.
I really,
can't think of any that would invade my privacy
Nothing that you felt that,
any experiences you've had at work?
I, othe ,
really can't say anything that would really bother me.
So many things I think over the years have been, accepted, that are no longer done.
I can remember when I was very young, much younger and I applied for a job
they said, (( aren't )) you planning to have children.
that's none of their business.
of course, by law they (( can't )) ask that.
there has been I think a lot protect privacy.
especially between women and,
How do you feel,
AIDS and all that stuff?
with (( )) .
I ,
i ,
they've gotten a lot with,
applications and stuff and aren't allowed to ask.
That's right.
Do you feel that drug testing is an invasion of privacy?
Or AIDS testing?
I think it's for the better of i ,
you mean for working and stuff?
I don't because I think whenever, something like that
they're looking out for everyone.
They're not,
I think it's more safety than anything else.
I feel that way too.
I sometimes feel sometimes individual rights including the right to privacy have to be sacrificed for a greater benefit.
I know,
for example airline pilots.
I do want my pilot to be sober .
I know,
I worked at a still mill in this summer.
I know,
that, I've covered for people that came in drunk, on the late shift or something,
I don't even like having them around.
I kind of do their work for them because they make it more hazardous than what it is without them,
That's right.
I know i ,
some of the people that oppose, mandatory drug testing for certain areas say, it's not,
let's see was the topic,
I forgot
(( )) we are supposed to talk,
Advice help their kids through college.
do you have any children?
I just graduated from college.
did you?
Where did you go?
I went to Clarion.
want them to go to a certain place
I would want them to make that decision
I would,
I pretty much made my decision on my own and my likewise.
were both pretty much happy with what we did.
I think, I would not push them towards any one place.
I know,
I kind of feel the same way
just finished college a couple years ago
it was while I had my family and everything and it was a lot harder,
I went to a college that was fairly local
I feel like my education,
you get out of it what you put into it, I think.
I know,
some people are real adamant about, going to a certain school or whatever.
I do not know,
I guess would depend on maybe what your major was or something,
I do not know.
I think one of the first things kids ought to look for is, first of all, they have to decide what they want to major in.
And then, find a school that's good for that.
Is that why you picked the school you did
I picked it for a couple of reasons, it was only about an hour and ten minutes away from home,
so it was far enough away that I was away,
but yet close enough if I ever wanted to go home, I could.
you lived there at school then?
Pardon me.
You lived there at school.
I lived up at school.
another reason was, I paid for my entire education.
So I had to look for something that I could afford economically.
roughly around six thousand a year.
that was for tuition
that was for everything.
I did not go out a lot
I did not order out a lot,
did not spend money on myself.
then again, I was there for school
then another reason was I was not sure,
I always wanted to go to school for nursing, and then at the last minute, I changed my mind.
I knew that Clarion was known, (( )) for two things,
actually, for their,
they are known as a teacher's school
and also for their business.
that's what I ended up going for is for business.
For business.
are you working somewhere then
not yet,
I am moving shortly,
I am not looking around here.
I see,
where are you going to move to?
are you?
Do you have friends there
My fiancee is down there .
I see.
does he work for a company down there?
he works for the government.
I see.
the big company.
have been working for T I for about twelve years, I guess.
from Illinois, but, I have gone to college, I guess a few different places,
I think, part, the teachers have been pretty good and I have got out of it put into it.
that's most of it personally,
that's why think that, I am just going to encourage them to go.
I am going to try to help them financially
I think, financially, I am,
there's only so much I can do for them,
I will say, here's what you have got,
you can either, go a couple of years locally and, then if you want to move off to a more expensive school then, we might be able to handle it. But,
otherwise, you can just go for four years, somewhere and I will help you. I do not know, the financial end of it, like you said.
I put my wife through school too.
Of course T I paid for a lot of the tuition and books and stuff, but, it still was a challenge to do.
I think, financially one of the big aspects.
It does have a lot of bearing on it, whether you are paying for yourself,
or whether your parents are,
think you had a different outlook on it, like your grades and things like that?
because I was paying for it myself, I kind of slacked off,
I felt it was mine and I could do with it what I wanted.
I think if my parents would have paid for it they would have been on me,
they pretty much got to the point,
you are at that age
you are going to have to decide what you want to do.
If you goof,
up, it's your fault,
it's not ours,
lets me go
I did not do poorly.
I finished with a two five,
that's not that wonderful either.
I worked,
I did not,
goof around,
I worked.
It was just harder,
(( )) I do not know,
I was used to being, on top
when I started there, it was like, you are mediocre,
I think,
I have known a lot of people that would go to school and their parents paid for it
I guess it depends on the way you are raised too,
grow to expect that,
you kind of go there as sort of a vacation,
that's the way a lot of my friends did it
take it very serious.
I know I took it real serious,
I did not start to college until, I was about eight or ten years out of what I should have been in school.
I think that helped me be real serious about it.
ended up graduating with a three point six.
that's really good.
that was hard cause I had two kids,
and, a family and everything else,
I had a lot of different hats to wear all at the same time.
I screwed myself up also,
there was a point in time that I decided that I did not want to in school,
my parents never pushed me until my dad just said, what are you going to do
I said, I am going to go because I have not whipping butter the rest of my life,
you are right,
I went and I just took business,
being as I was paying for it myself, I just kept,
you do not get into your major until your second or third year.
I am going into my third year
I decided, I do not want to do accounting anymore,
I thought, my God, I am paying for this myself,
I am not switching completely because,
I will put myself a year behind.
I switched to finance,
I liked it better
I pulled myself from a two oh to a two five,
in senior year.
I would have really liked to go on, secondary ed with math education,
it was just the fact I was paying for it myself,
I was not going,
to put myself behind another year.
wife, was sort of in the same situation,
went to school to be a teacher just because she did not really know what else to go,
she did not realize until she got to be a senior and was doing her student teaching that she did not like it.
by then she had practically got her degree,
I would have done a lot better, because I was more interested.
knew that's what I wanted.
I think a lot of kids that hold off a year or two,
my gosh,
I would like to see the results on a study done.
I think they would do a lot better. Because they are more focused.
They know exactly what they want to do.
you are right,
when you pull yourself away and then you get out and you say, man I really need this.
the topic of the conversation is national health insurance, and the pros and cons, and think that the government should finance it.
What is your opinion?
I say yes.
You say yes.
Mother lives in Florida,
fifty percent Canadians who won't give up their Canadian citizenship because of the health insurance.
I have heard someone else, say that, the Canadian health insurance is absolutely excellent
It's wonderful.
one of the ways that they're financing it is they have an exorbitant tax on their cigarettes.
This is
evidently this is one of the ways that they're paying for the program plus discouraging the people to quit smoking so they don't have to pay out as many, benefits on lung cancer and things like this.
even if that's
really when you look at it, they have full coverage,
they have H M O, which, after you get used to it, it's not too bad,
everything is covered
we have so many people in the United States that we spend,
in my family alone, we spent four thousand dollars in July on medical bills
my word, Lynn.
insurance didn't cover a penny.
That's horrible.
it is horrible.
we're fortunate in that so far, knock on wood, most of us have been healthy
we don't have a lot of medical bills.
if you're healthy it's fine,
I had two kids in the hospital in July.
what worries me is the fact that I don't like the government telling me who I can see and who I can't see.
Richardson School District has the H M O
ninety percent of the doctors you would choose are on that list.
Are they?
I know that had it.
McCullum is.
I beg your pardon.
McCullum is.
I know that when James was with Continental Steel, McCullum was part of that,
that's good.
I also heard, for instance, my friend's daughter was on it through Texas Instruments,
she was on that Kaiser Permanente
they had screwed up her appointment,
when she went in, she had to take whichever doctor was available,
she would have had to wait two months to get the doctor she wanted.
then again, I guess you can even do that in McCullum.
that's a screw up in an appointment,
I'm going back to the days when I was pregnant
I had two doctors,
one was my favorite, personality wise
when I delivered Ronnie, he was not on call
the other guy delivered him
that's true,
that still goes on.
if, I go to Townsend
he's got a new partner.
I go to both of them now.
I have no choice
because when I want to go,
if Dr. Howe or whatever his name is is on duty, I go to him.
how do you think we're going to pay for it?
More and more taxes? .
we need to cut some of our spendings, cut some of the fat off the top and whittle it down to the rest of us.
I know that it's getting to the point that the insurance doesn't pay that much on catastrophic illnesses.
They don't pay anything on, implants
or transplants,
people are needing these,
the average person can't afford, a heart or a kidney
on just their own.
Ronnie, in Austin, went to a program and went to a social worker
at the same token there is something,
he can get his pills for two dollars, when I'm paying fifteen on my medical insurance
Good grief.
he can get free medical care, but he has to go to the city hospital instead of seeing David
and so again,
we went through tonight,
we talked about it and said, is it worth it?
he pays forty five dollars a month for his prescriptions, where he could pay six dollars.
Very true.
are programs, if you get on Medicare or Medicaid or one of those,
I know they have the Medicaid, for those that have trouble,
I know that we have the, prescription cards which,
that's helped bunches
wonder if the insurance companies are fighting the national health,
wonder if they're wanting it.
That's what I read.
That they are wanting,
are you there?
Yes, sir,
I'm right here.
All right .
I'm in an area where, we can, enjoy it year round,
I've actually out within the past couple of weeks.
I'm mainly a freshwater fisherman.
How about yourself?
I've done both kinds
I'm originally from the State of Virginia
and, lived Virginia Beach where we could, surf cast and,
Did you ev ,
catch a lot of things in the ocean there.
Did you ever do the James River?
I don't believe I have fished the James River.
There's a possibility, but that was so long ago
I moved here State College, in nineteen fifty five
that has pretty well limited my fishing to fresh water
we have a lot of, beautiful fresh water streams that come through area.
I'm in an area called Center County, which is in the very center of the State of Pennsylvania,
been in that area
the trout fishing is supposed to be legendary.
The trout fishing is really, beautiful.
As I say, streams are, eight, ten, fifteen feet wide and so forth,
stand on the edge and cast out and work, from your feet most of the time
for brookies.
a few lakes of course, close
by, *
what do you like, brookies or, rainbows
tell you the truth, picky.
wherever the area,
whatever fish is the specialist in that area, enjoy fishing for it,
I try to,
I haven't fished in several years
I'll have to admit, but when I do fish, I do contact, some of the local specialists
so that I can then find out type of lures that they use and where they fish, and any unique, techniques that would help you.
Do you fly fish, or are those streams too small?
fly fish.
I used to do that a little when I lived up in New York,
right now it's, bass and striped bass is the only thing that I go for down
that's a pretty big fish.
the striped bass have accommodated themselves to the big fresh water lakes,
they're pretty exciting running.
It's a salt water fish in fresh water, environment.
streams here are replanted with fish about every year
It's all put and take.
so that, they, they have a pretty good idea what the number of fish are in these various locations,
they certain areas that they plant, a hundred here and a hundred there,
this is, of course, X number of weeks or months before fishing season opens
What's the season?
April to or something like that?
That sounds about right
pretty close.
what's a license cost?
as I say, it's been several years,
the licenses weren't that expensive,
seems to stick in my mind, five to seven dollars
is about all, from what I remember it.
It's about the same as Texas.
I have, probably a half a dozen different kinds of, fishing poles fly rods and so forth,
I had been so busy in my work in these last few years that I haven't had time to fish.
I'm going to be retiring at the end of December,
hope, the next fishing season, that I can sort of get back in and, enjoy that.
was a really enjoyable, thing for me to do.
I have all sons, so I think I'm probably going to be fishing for a long time .
I just have one son and lives out of the state now, rather, in the eastern corner of it,
I don't think he has time to fish either .
I caught the disease from my father,
I'm passing it on to my children.
It's really ,
is that right?
They love it,
my goodness.
the disease I caught was simply because, was in the Norfolk Portsmouth area,
people there,
so much water around
that, either boating or you're fishing
I fairly enjoyed at that time.
I have a small aluminum boat here
when I go on one of the large lakes that we have here I enjoy fishing trout from that,
know about the lakes in central Pennsylvania.
Are there many?
as I say, I'm in Center County.
two different size lakes about, five, six miles from State College.
these aren't huge lakes from your point of view
they are probably fifteen, twenty acres maybe
here is a lot of water,
you have a home, or apartment?
I have a home.
do you have to do a lot of upkeep?
Not really,
we have a small backyard and small front yard
I do basically the shrubbery and the planting and the weeding
he mows the lawn because the lawn mower is too heavy .
That's another story.
Okay .
I do the edging and stuff like that,
it doesn't take us that long because yard is so small.
I try and do as much, flowering as I can, and
that kind of stuff.
The seasonal things.
I think we have one of the nicest yards neighborhood .
that's nice .
I wish I could say that.
Ours is pretty small, too,
takes about an hour with the two of us working
to, do the bushes and all of that sort of thing.
the worst part is controlling the weeds.
Which I hate because we don't like to use a lot of the chemicals and, because, we have a dog he's going to be out in the yard and who knows who he eats out there.
That's true.
we try not to use them but we end up using some anyway.
, what else.
I get to put out all the Christmas lights out there and all that,
sort of thing .
I don't .
he does that.
go up
one year we
did the edge of the house
all the way up on the roof
I went up on the roof once and I'll never do it again .
I decided I was afraid .
Don't blame you .
this year, he got lazy so I said, fine
I'll put some on the bushes.
that's about it,
that's all
it gets.
we don't have that many bushes to put them on.
yard is very, narrow
we have some bushes, but we don't have too many,
we have a nice tree in the front
we have comes and mows everybody's front yard
they keep hitting with the lawn mower.
every time you do that, it, kind of kills the tree for a while.
that's kind of stunt its growth for just a while until we get it back going again.
we started mowing our own lawn
they were doing that.
anyways I have a nice full tree now
it with lights and
that kind of thing.
also edged,
they would edge the shrubbery
no .
gosh, it was getting really bad,
you still have to pay for it, they're not going to do it?
it's an association fee.
is it real expensive?
it's seventy a month.
my goodness.
I don't like,
just get really upset every time I make that check out.
they do other things for you all?
They take care of the, landscape,
we live in a cul de sac
there is a island in the middle
they care of that
there is a pool and they take care of the pool
there is a pond,
they take care of the pond in the park area and that kind of thing.
you're basically paying,
the sprinkler system that,
our yard doesn't have a sprinkler system, but the island does
certain sharing areas have sprinkler systems
that way if someone moves out, the entire neighborhood is mowed and watered and that kind of thing,
you knew when you moved in, you'd have to pay that, didn't you?
it went up what we pay.
Oh .
that's the bad thing.
I just hope it doesn't go up any more
we just can't afford it anymore.
I don't know what to do if you can't afford it .
I don't know either.
That's interesting.
that's what they do.
They take care of basically the front yards
unless you don't want them to do it.
do at a
do things like plant bushes and trees?
the common areas and in the island.
they don't do it in your yard.
there is, no restriction on what types of bushes you can have or anything like that?
we've added bushes shrubbery, too.
when we moved into our house I just hated the bushes they had.
ripped most of them out and put them somewhere in the back.
I know.
put new ones out front.
that was a lot of work.
Took me a long time.
that's what we did when we first moved in, too.
Just rearranged some things .
we put in a sprinkler system,
We won't go through that again,
I will pay someone to do it .
it took so long.
my husband was, digging the trenches because he didn't want to get a trencher,
there is a machine that will
do it.
there is so many people that broke either their water main or their gas main doing it.
I guess that costs you an absolute fortune.
That's true,
you did it manually.
By hand.
it works great now that we've got it.
I bet.
it's nice.
that's a good investment there.
we needed to because we're having some foundation trouble,
you have to keep area moist
around the house or it makes it worse,
we had an incentive there
to do that.
Go ahead.
a friend of mine actually works for McDonald Douglas space station program
I get to find out a lot of information about what's going on there
it sure sounds like that's going to be a really viable program if it continues to be funded at current levels.
going to be doing a lot of interesting things.
I think one of the big things he's involved with is the micro gravity payloads.
that has a direct impact on a lot of things that we really can't do down here on earth including, some new pharmaceutical techniques.
you're kidding.
there's a big opportunity for us to explore, what sorts of things you can do in a zero gravity environment.
I suspect that we'll see a lot of gains from that.
that's good because sometimes I wonder, being a, lay person out there not, knowing what's going on in space. Whether, they're going ahead and doing things and whether or not
we're spending too much money on the programs and not spending enough money on the earth that we have here.
to me, all this, space exploration that we've done thus far has told us that there's no other place like earth. That, we can't live on Mars.
We can't live here,
we can't live there.
this is place that we have to live.
there's, no other resource for us look at other than here.
it's kind of like, to me,
I would like to see a lot more money being put toward taking care of the environment that we have here and not so much emphasis put on what's going out in space
not that I want everything to halt
let's forget about the space program or whatever,
we're always curious
we always need to know more things.
to me it's kind of like let's try and clean up the air that we have here.
Let's try to take care of the lakes that are getting polluted and the other things that are going on here.
Mainly because,
the space program has taught us that there is no other place for us.
this is it.
went into space and found Mars a livable, planet, we probably would have inhabited it
who would have cared about earth?
It would have been another planet to kind of take over and, continue on.
when I look at the space program itself, I think of it, as being in terms of interesting to learn but it brings down the fact that this earth is it.
It's it for us,
unless technology makes the decision that we are all going to live in space or whatever.
I would love to, go into the space shuttle some day and, just see, the earth and the different planets and things like that.
think it would be very interesting to do but whether it would be feasible to do I don't know.
as far as the practical aspects go, I suspect that the space station may actually be a good compromise
between, exploration
not doing anything
because we have the opportunity to off load some things to the space station.
perhaps we can find better techniques for doing things that, we'd normally do down here
that are damaging to the environment.
that's true,
think of,
I'm sure you probably have heard of the Genesis program that's going on currently out in the Arizona desert.
trying to look at how things effect everything in trying to create, an environment where they have an ocean and they have the lakes and then they have the desert part of it
they have an area that's more, full of, vegetation, tropicals, that kind of thing, to kind of look at things and say, environment wise, this is where we're living
effects it
how can we improve it and things like that.
think in space,
I don't know how many people could live up in space, for any length of time .
just the way that we're affected by when it's cloudy out
it's cloudy for days
we don't see the sun
the people, their moods are extreme,
It's like, God if I don't get to see the sun I'm going to be in this bad mood all this entire time
this is how I see people reacting.
when is the sun going to come out?
I wonder how, somebody living up in space is going to be able to tolerate never seeing the sun . in the aspect that we see it.
and never seeing, light, bright days,
do you have any, television programs that you watch regularly?
this is kind of tough.
I don't too often watch, shows that are on, on a regular bases.
I don't have a lot of time
I don't really like some of them to tell you the truth.
I don't thing they have any redeeming value.
I watch things like, SIXTY MINUTES,
every week.
it's kind of tough to think of some of the others. Although, I do watch some of some of those frivolous things.
like on Thursday nights at nine o'clock when I get home from aerobics I will watch, KNOTS LANDING .
you will?
just something like that for, end of the evening type of thing,
How about you?
I watch,
I like news programs, like you mentioned,
sometimes I will watch, the program.
I don't get that so I don't have,
that choice.
like that.
watch that a couple of times a week,
it comes on at nine o'clock,
at night
I really don't have any situation comedies that I watch regularly.
have seen that, MURPHY BROWN that comes on,
Monday nights before
it's kind of cute,
I don't,
there's a couple of those I've seen once in a while,
I can't think of the name of the one that has the, military, fellow.
he's playing a military part.
He's the husband of,
the girl on DESIGNING WOMEN.
I know who you're talking about.
seen it, I think, maybe once.
on one time when I saw it
it, it's pretty cute.
(( I like that ))
we really don't watch too many programs regularly.
My children like some of the morning children's shows,
when they're home.
I just have one son who's in kindergarten
in the morning they will like to watch EUREKA'S CASTLE, it's called.
It's just like a SESAME STREET,
they watch a couple of shows like that,
I don't watch any daytime T V at all.
I don't,
I guess, there's some, things on Channel Thirteen that I watch pretty regularly.
On Saturdays they have, a variety of things,
a lot of times I record it and watch it some other time.
they have programs on, house repairs and,
how to build things
they have a calligraphy show,
I do calligraphy, so, I watch that.
that's nice.
they have a lot of cooking shows,
I'll just short of have it on sometimes to just sort of pick up little tidbits from those.
I don't sit and watch them I enjoy some of it especially if I'm, cooking on a Saturday evening or something,
one of those kind of inspires me.
That sounds like a good idea.
I notice that, since we moved here that did get the cable T V,
when the newspaper comes out on Sunday, I sometimes read through the movies that will be listed,
I record some.
we have just totally cut down,
we never go to a video tape rental anymore because there's always plenty of things that we can record and then,
and watch and then record over something else.
that's been really nice because if you decide one evening you would like to stay home and have a quiet evening and watch a movie then you have two or three saved.
we do some of that,
In fact, I probably am more interested in watching some of the movies that are on T V,
than, other kinds of things.
that's probably what I watch most frequently besides news programs is the movies
they have a couple of channels that are nostalgic older movies,
that I have really enjoyed that I'm seeing for the first time .
Like the MARX BROTHERS and things like that.
those are pretty good
like those old ones,
much better than some of the new stuff.
have really enjoyed that
it's really nice not to be running out.
Some of the video rentals can be expensive
the movie can be unbelievable.
Going and paying six dollars for a ticket for one person at the theater or something.
I have,
it's so convenient at home
you can do it anytime take the notion.
I have really enjoyed that
there are,
I do have friends that watch programs
they want to see a particular program and they are either home watching it or definitely recording it.
They have some programs that they won't miss.
I'm not that hung up to most things.
if I miss something big deal .
things are repeated,
That's true.
so often that I have seen just a program once chances are it'll be that exact same show .
if I ever decide to tune it in again,
the only one I've ever seen and it'll be showing again.
Pretty funny.
T V is something that we to not, deliberately try not to get hung up on it,
like you say.
We do too.
Too many other things to do and too much going on.
we don't want our kids grow up thinking that that's what you do with your,
spare time.
I agree.
it's something that we try doing
a lot of good children's programs that several hours every day.
you could say, that's a good program for them because it's educational
still you want them to go out and do other things.
Even if they're,
good programs you don't want them sitting there watching them.
we probably exhausted that, huh?
That was pretty good
like that
I guess it's time to go.
I enjoyed talking to you.
Nice to have spoken with you, too.
Bye bye.
Good bye.
what do you think about the war recently?
The war?
You mean in terms of the economy
the economy,
our soldiers going over,
just everything.
I thought we were going to talk about social changes.
you're kind,
of directing it,
okay .
that's the first thing I thought of
I don't know.
I think it's caused a lot of, big difference between when people had gone to war before,
compared to Vietnam
I know that there was so much more support for the soldiers going over,
even people that didn't agree with the war still seem to be able to separate that,
and support the soldiers,
I know that, I've heard people say that when people that went to World War Two
you couldn't become a political figure or president unless you had served in the war,
then in Vietnam that was totally different,
you couldn't be a political figure if you were in Vietnam probably.
if you've served in Desert Storm you probably would be good candidate.
it would be a bonus for your,
E ,
image or something.
exactly, exactly.
, it,
I'm sure it caused a lot of changes in terms of how many families had to have their income,
torn apart.
yea ,
just drastically altered.
We had people down the street that the guy was in the reserves and he was just about ready to go and they a new baby,
had to go back to work
I think she said their income would have dropped by two thirds.
that's also a good reason why
good that it ended as soon as it did.
I think the biggest change that we've seen, my life or whatever lately is the economy,
things are so tight,
my husband hasn't gotten a raise in two years
it seems like everything is raising, that can be, cigarettes,
not that I smoke, but cigarettes, stamps,
it seems like ever ,
Even dog licenses
everything single thing that we do,
is higher,
they just raised the minimum wage today
that's not
Going to effect too many,
as much as they should have raised it I'm sure.
that's the hardest thing for us
we've been trying to kind of maintain traditional lifestyle in the sense of (( meaning )) home.
We have a three year old and a two year old
I'm trying to stay home as long as I can,
every week it gets harder
I could go out and be making money,
that's a big, stress I think,
for the social changes in our family.
have any children or anything right now
work as a news reporter in Waco,
I see.
I get to see,
I got to see probably a good part of the war, as far as what people thought about it,
and a lot of things like that,
Well i ,
It was kind of amazing
people were coming to me to ask me, what's going on, like I knew,
or like I sat in on the meetings or something.
you have an inside track or something.
I got to hear a lot of what the people thought about, changes the war and everything,
that was pretty interesting.
Let's see,
what other social changes in the past ten years,
I guess between men and women I've seen a lot of changes,
in terms of women feeling like they have to have a career, be mom, be,
be everything, be supermom,
everything, superperson .
I know, really get pressure because I have a career also,
I get a lot of pressure from
why am I staying home.
whereas before that never would have happened ,
Whereas it would have been,
people would have said, why are you going to work.
that's kind of a difference for us.
I think there's more pressure be more involved with the family.
The roles are changing a lot.
he's gotten a lot,
you see all kinds of men being involved in the housework and taking care of the kids and all,
in terms of his amount of hours at work, nothing on that has lightened up.
it's now he has the pressure too of being superdad and supercareer
even, I think a lot of the movies we see now play a good part in our changes
you see that they have THE THREE MEN AND A BABY type movies.
that's true,
I think, you know that,
MISTER MOM
you have the women, detectives now and, different roles,
just in what we see
we probably want to do that even more now.
since the women's movement in the, seventies,
That's true.
we've come a long way but I think it's have a good ways to go.
I think there's still,
know that, I grew up in Chicago in the sixties,
was part,
my family was real liberal,
I think there's a lot of, kind of myths that we've come a long way just in terms of our society,
and race relations and things like that,
I think there's so much prejudice still there,
it's kind of more covert now.
People used to be more clear and say,
I believe in this or I believe in that,
I think there's still tremendous amount of prejudice,
It's just not as,
people think, we're in the nineties, we're beyond all that, .
like I say, we've come a long way, but we have, twice as far to go,
I don't think a lot of people, realize of people.
you may be in good standing and everything may look hunky dory to you,
But there's so many more people,
but there's so many more people,
that are homeless
that you don't even see or know about.
It's real easy to get isolated in your own little community,
I was growing up in Chicago, we were in a real ethnic neighborhood
there were people from different nationalities,
and everything.
now we're kind of in Lewisville, Miss White Little suburbia,
I don't even know anybody ,
(( )) , from any place other than Texas hardly,
I grew up in,
in Brooklyn, New York,
surrounded, by Black people,
I'm Black,
feel lucky because I've almost lived around everyone.
went to U T to college,
have a lot of different people go there,
different kinds of people.
I feel really enriched in that a lot of people don't get to see,
some people have lived in Lewisville all their life,
and they don't get to see,
they think the whole world, , is like that.
Exactly . th ,
We lived in a dorm.
My husband and I met in graduate school,
at Indiana University
international dorm,
there were twelve hundred students,
they're graduate students from all over the world.
once we came here it was
I just miss that,
it really is exciting,
It is.
to be around people of different cultures and different backgrounds.
We got invited to,
one guy practically roasted a goat dorm
my God.
(( I wonder if he was )) from, Iran, or some place,
I don't know where
there's so many people who have never, even gotten to do that,
that's great.
My sister was telling me going to the University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia,
she just met a girl from, I think, Barbados or Jamaica, something,
like that.
I mean this girl she had two outfits that she would just wear all the time,
and everything
she got some kind of money from her government five hundred dollars.
my sister had to take her shopping and, show her what to wear, show her how to match up colors
I just thought that was so very exciting,
you to go just witness, this girl just coming to America type thing,
really .
I would have loved the opportunity to do that,
That is part,
of the change I think that I've seen probably, in the past twenty years or whatever, is now kids have to have so much.
I even get caught up in it with our kids,
even though I buy most of the things at garage sales for their Christmas,
people think they're kids have to have five, , hundred dollars worth of toys.
(( )) the latest cereal about, th ,
it's just,
that's ridiculous,
When I first moved here I was only thirteen but, everyone had a car in school,
belie ,
I was from New York we road the bus.
me too,
if you had a ca ,
in Chicago ,
I didn't even date a guy that had a car until I was in college .
if you had a car there was nowhere to park it anyway
it's just,
you just didn't have a car,
then we came here and they had parking lots in the schools
I couldn't understand it.
all the kids had cars,
they, have to have a car.
that was,
my kids are going to be hating me,
I'll give them a bike and say,
, yeah,
here's it
you can afford to pay the insurance,
Or live really close to school and have them walk.
a lot of changes.
, did we cover everything (( Betty )) ?
I think so .
I guess I'll get back to my laundry .
talking to you.
You too,
good luck.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
we haven't really heard that much in the news lately, about, U S involvement in Latin America, since, all this Middle East crisis began.
I haven't really paid that much attention since back in August when all of the news and all of the media began to focus in on, Iraq,
the, the last thing that I remember hearing that much about is the Iran Contra scandal that happened in the Reagan presidency.
Can you think of anything else that's happened recently?
I would agree with you.
We haven't had too much,
historically, we've always, almost been like a big brother to the Latin American area, and, almost used them,
I feel.
I think something will have to be done down there very soon Mexico some of the other areas,
with the Persian Gulf, as you said, it's just, been very quiet.
keep pretty close tabs on the paper
you don't hardly see a,
unless it's there and we're just not seeing it.
the only, references that I have seen lately has been, in, part of
the overmilitarization of Iraq was due to companies selling them arms and things,
they made references to in the past, how we have given arms to, Nicaragua and to other places in Latin America, and that those might turn around and haunt us someday.
to this large scale as Iraq,
whenever we give arms to people, we did, and as we sold arms Iraq, when we wanted them to fight Iran,
it turn around and,
agree we're the largest munitions producer in the world,
there's a lot of money to be made there,
it's, very difficult cut it back to a,
a level where it should be.
it will come back to haunt us,
it seems to come in cycles.
I know when I spent,
the time that I've studied in Mexico, there was a kind of a lot of resentment there towards America,
about, like you say, using them, yo ,
our interest there is, what profit we could make off of any kind of relationship with them,
we weren't normally very interested in them,
they have,
most Latin American countries, are a lot of the kind of problems that we've fought for in other countries,
they have corruption,
they don't have,
there's just very few really modern cities.
problem down there is the drug entry points,
their economy is,
the countries,
especially Columbia, is so built on the drugs, that, little war on drugs has really been laughable.
It's just small amount,
it doe ,
it just,
it, cuts off just a trickle,
we can't get a handle on that method, I don't know
that will be another big problem.
that's right,
that's just so much of the way that they make their money
so many communities to have that for farming .
they don't look at it so much as,
as long as we're the largest, consumer, then,
this is the market.
That's right.
If we can cut back the usage, then maybe it will have to go someplace else.
I think it's really very sad that north of the border, the United States and Canada is so different,
South America,
and Central America.
There's really a disparity between what I would call civilization of the countries,
Right, yeah, *
we're just so much wealthier,
there has to be resentment built up,
that's where, leaders can that whenever the opportune moment arises.
it's really kind of sad,
that we would go all the way to Iraq and that we would be very concerned with the situation between Jerusalem and, Israel and the Middle East Arab countries, a lot of problems, right in our own back door.
That's right.
Our own hemisphere,
the way it's always been.
I guess we've kind of neglected Latin America.
Very much so, except when we need them.
You know when they found oil in Mexico, then we got very friendly with them again.
Ri ,
recently ,
fairly recently.
that's really sad.
I hadn't thought about that in a long time.
I guess then, I will go,
made me stop and think a minute about,
Sure did.
not worrying so much about the Middle East crisis.
I know that it's not settled but, there are other areas that we could focus our attention on.
yes ma'am.
thank you,
you have a good day.
You too, dear.
Bye bye.
what kind of music do you like?
several years ago a radio broke in my car
I never,
I got out of the habit of listening to the radio,
I haven't been listing,
used to just listen to the rock stations
but, lately I have been going back to classical music.
I don't really know what too many of the most popular songs are unless, they're in news or something .
I tend to listen to some of the older songs that were popular back when I was paying attention.
I like some classical music
and some of the pieces that have been around a while.
I haven't paid much attention to most of the current music.
What about you?
to a wide variety of music.
Sometimes I'll turn on the classical music,
sometimes I'll listen to jazz,
every now and then country and western.
I'll listen to some of the rock stations.
I also like the classic rock stations,
that play the older, more mellow type rock music .
rock stations now are top forty stations or whatever.
They just,
it really gets on my nerves because they play so many commercials
sometimes the deejays are just kind of annoying and irritating
That's true.
it gets kind of old,
they play the same songs over and over,
I just get kind of tired of all that.
lots of times,
I'll just play cassettes instead of listening to the radio,
most of my cassettes,
I guess, like hard rock.
I have rock and some jazz and a couple, maybe one or two country and western. Some, Garth Brooks,
I have a couple of his tapes.
just light rock type stuff.
I don't,
I never liked any of the heavy metal
music .
I never really listened to it because prefer to have I guess, an established pattern of music to listen to.
back a long time ago, when the rap music first came out
it was kind of a novelty, and I listened to some of it,
now that there's just a million rap groups
they each other with raciness, I think,
not attracted to that at all,
it made a big difference in my life not to have a radio that was (( )) easy access,
now that I do have one, I just don't automatically turn it on
unless there's something I'm particularly listening to.
if you go two or three years without having that,
what I got the most exposure to
it really changed my life style and kept me from just having easy access to current music,
I did, like I say, tend to go back to albums and
cassettes and things that I
we don't have a C D yet, do you?
I don't.
I sure don't
I have so many albums and cassettes I feel like, gosh, I'm going to have to go out and buy a C D player and then start collecting C D s,
it just,
I haven't gotten around to doing it yet.
kind of decided to wait until was around a while.
It was kind of like, remember when personal calculators first came out,
they were expensive
now you can get one for two or three dollars.
Just like V C R's, too .
I thought of that, too, that if I wait, it'll get a lot less expensive,
I can do without it for a while.
also they get better quality
w ,
they learn to have more features and things
without, making them less expensive.
we're kind of waiting to, now,
the price of cassettes has gone down
because C D s are so popular,
a C D is a lot more expensive than a cassette ever was, too,
right now, I think.
I haven't even priced them.
I guess they must be.
They're somewhere between ten and fifteen dollars a piece.
That is awful .
. I bought some at Christmas time for friends of mine that have C D players.
I thought, my gosh,
now I know another reason why I'm not going to get a C D player for a while.
Take our time.
I can't imagine,
you can't record on them and so they won't be as functional as a cassette player, where if you heard something, you could record it,
you wanted to record something to play out in your car or something,
that you'd heard or that you owned an album of,
C D s won't be nearly as handy.
turntable, and then I've got a dual cassette
I can record off other cassettes.
I never realized you couldn't record onto C ,
I just never really thought about it
I haven't really looked into it very much.
I don't have one
I've never really looked at one very closely,
would be inconvenient because I have a cassette player in my car.
all of them will probably have C D s players by then,
I'm not planning on doing that for a while.
I just got mine paid off .
Enjoy it.
I'm going to stick with the cassettes they,
C D player that she got for Christmas
she's got cassette, so she can record off cassettes onto C D s.
off C D s onto cassettes.
that's good.
I can record some things from her and, get cassettes and record off other ones or off the radio if I want to
I just haven't gone to C D yet.
we haven't either,
like idea of having great extra quality,
in your music and things.
I'm satisfied to just have what I've been used to, not have to think about the great financial
sacrifice that that would be, to suddenly try to switch over to all C D s or something.
I know one thing that has colored my music choice is when we had children, I really started to think about what kind of television programs I was watching,
and what kind of music I was listening to and
I just didn't want them to be exposed to a lot of things,
a songs have some lyrics that,
I just wasn't pleased with,
they get worse and worse, too.
I really think we've tried to tone down
our taste there to make, our children not be exposed to so many things so early in life.
that's amazing how have the stereo on all the time or I had on M T V or something,
ever since I've been out of college, I guess over the last several years, I listen to the stereo less and less.
Now will turn on,
I've got a small jam box in my bathroom.
I'll turn that on while I'm in the shower and while I'm getting ready because there's really not much else I can do
it's kind of boring standing there, putting on makeup, so I'll turn the radio on
I listen to it when I'm in the car driving to work because, again, nothing else going on.
I might as well listen to the radio while I'm driving to work.
other than that, really don't, I don't listen to the radio or even to my albums or cassettes or anything very often anymore.
I guess I'm just too busy doing other things that it's too much trouble to get up and go decide what I want to listen to,
and put it turntable.
I don't know,
I just bother to do it very much anymore.
I know what you mean.
know my husband, he, plays an instrument
he played in the band when he was in college and in high school
he has a lot of all different kinds of music,
he goes out of his way to play marching band music,
or like you say, jazz or classical to the children give them some exposure to different kinds of music.
I think that's really good because they're learning to like all different kinds
That's good.
What instrument does he play?
He plays the,
it's a euphonium.
It's like not a tuba, but I th ,
it's hard to explain .
I never had known anyone to play one before.
I've never heard of that.
it's kind of like a tuba but it's not the kind that sits up on your shoulder.
it's a cross between a tuba an, and, a horn.
It's a brass instrument.
he plays that a little bit of piano
he has some real fond memories of marching band
and concert band type activities,
he thinks that would be good for the kids .
I'm sure it is.
I'm sure it is.
I was exposed to a lot of music when I was younger.
my parents had me take piano lessons for eight years,
a real good piano player,
then I got interested in a lot of other things
I got real involved in many things
now I don't have a piano in my apartment or anything.
I could sit back down and play a few things,
but not like I used to be able to.
It's kind of sad that I've let that slip away.
I took guitar lessons, I think, for one or two years,
that was about the same time I was taking piano.
I got too busy in high school to really keep up with it between homework and ...
Are you a T I er?
I am.
had a hard time getting a few folks,
I thought, all these T I ers have gone home,
at one o'clock on Friday.
It is Friday,
that's for sure.
I guess,
I'm trying to think the last thing I did to a car.
I do it a lot.
I have,
I kind of worked my way through college as a mechanic as a kid.
my father and brother were in it
my brother's still in it.
I had periods when I didn't do anything,
in the last ten years my car doesn't go to a shop,
I just do it all.
there's hardly anything I'll do.
did take it to a transmission place to put in a new transmission but,
I change the oil and transmission
I do, essentially do it all.
I don't know, if there's anything specific.
In fact, I could advise people,
I happen to be a M E besides.
I do it for fun really and to save
I guess that's diversion.
I've tried a few groups, where you,
I can recommend it for people to take their cars.
I think Sears is probably the best place
I've heard, when I used to go there and when I,
I just overheard what they did for me, very little because I didn't take it that much.
what I heard them tell other people was always right.
when I sat there, dropped my car off for tires or something like that.
I respect,
they seem to actually have mechanics there.
, yeah.
I was pretty impressed with Western Auto,
they didn't do a great job of changing my transmission, oil last time.
when I did it the next time, I realized the filter was loose and everything,
I didn't like it.
I'm just doing it all myself.
the aggravating thing.
try to do as much as I can.
grew up on farm so I've got that, take care of yourself attitude.
You had to do it.
various things.
eighty three T Bird
changed out, heater core and,
timing belts and things like that.
I guess the last thing I took to anybody to have done was on my wife's car, when we went in for inspection.
quite pass.
we had to have,
a Mustang with a two barrel carburetor on it.
they had to do some adjustments on that and of course it had never been adjusted so they had to pull it off and pull all the plugs out, to get to it.
you like Fords, apparently, huh?
kind of stuck on them right now, I guess.
it's partially because I can work on them.
that's, that's, that's a big part of my decision.
we ran into some problems with, having them work on that carburetor.
everything tuned up right,
it home,
they had left the, oil cap off and it was rubbing
on a belt
it rubbed a notch in that.
My goodness.
things like that, that really start to aggravate you.
a lot of the reason I do my own stuff.
I when you have little things like that happen, we don't inspect, why we don't inspect areas guarantee it so to speak.
we always fix things and put things in and walk away.
there needs to be a time of inspection and check out.
thing like that with a car,
there ought to be someone there that inspects it before it's turned.
There ought to be an or quality insurance guy
an oil change,
in case, they didn't put the oil in or whatever.
i ,
always wonder about that someone does repairs or little things like that,
that in a, gets to be assembly line type operation,
always risking that.
If there's, too many people that get their hands on one little project, miss that overlap
they miss things.
had a hard time finding anybody I can trust.
you say, transmissions and things like that.
not going to, I'm not going to tear apart a automatic transmission
and try rebuild it.
I don't either.
I don't either,
it's, it's real stressful to try to find anybody that I think's going to do me right.
have an idea of what's going on.
You need to really,
do, a lot of the simple things.
think I do most of the things better than the average person.
have Fords and I have three Chevys,
I worked my way into having the same engine.
I don't know how long I'm,
I like a V eight.
on small block Chevy V eights.
I bought one car new,
I almost accidentally got the next car, although I was kind of looking for it when I got car with the same engine.
then truck I got next, I definitely looked for the same engine.
I buy filters, three or four at a time.
the engines are different
y ,
the cars are different years, but the same Chevy V eight.
is the same.
Almost everything is the same.
course is two are eighties and one eighty six,
you can learn a lot that way.
there's no way fix every car in the world,
things to me,
I ,
i ,
number one, you've got to have the tools around.
If you don't have special tools or,
any more
testers, that,
don't have a forty thousand dollar diagnostic tester sitting
in my garage,
obviously if missing or something like that, it's almost impossible to track that down any more
without a diagnostics.
the tools and the space to do it, can be a big problem under carriage or something like that.
then it's experience.
look through Chilton's book or something and get an idea of how to go about it.
you better figure on multiplying that time by at least by five or so.
just by not knowing, how to get to one bolt or that one
screw or whatever to get things apart.
the biggest thing when I did, the heater core in my T Bird.
That is got to be the worst location for it.
the only reason I did it,
I think they're all bad, really.
only ones I've ever heard things about the old Lincolns and Cadillacs where
they had the little door underneath the hood.
You just open the door and pop it out.
Is that right?
had, I had taken this in to have it done originally.
What did they want to charge you for it?
was, it was tremend ,
it was about seven hours labor.
was going to run about four hundred dollars or so.
they looked it over and they thought they could patch it up a little bit, and what not.
This is your little water, heater in there, for the,
the heat inside?
leaking inside the car,
in the condenser unit.
did a little patch on it,
for about four to six months.
I finally went back in and started looking at it myself.
a matter of tearing all the dash out and all that kind of stuff,
a seven hour labor
job for me.
It was about a week before I finally
Did you get it
inside or outside?
took one off my little Buick I had,
I pretty much took it loose on the inside.
it came out from hood.
It came from,
the only thing that sticks, the engine compartment on this are the two, hose fittings.
Maybe you're right,
maybe you're right.
it's been a long time since I took one out.
never heard a good story about,
Course, I broke mine,
I'm always very careful when I change hoses on it.
I don't know whether you did yours.
Not to really pull on those.
when I take those hoses, I cut them off
very gingerly.
if you on that,
I've always done that as a kid, just yanked on it.
they must have been stronger and heavier copper at the time.
I broke one Buick.
I always remembered it was my own fault,
I thought, I'm those hoses off.
You bet.
what ended up being the real problem on this, was the, the pipe wasn't busted,
it wasn't soldered in good enough.
broken loose enough to where if it got hot,
spread out,
just normal driving didn't do it.
if it was an especially hot day, the pressure would get high enough
and it would start blowing the water out inside.
It was real aggravating,
time worth a whole lot less hundred dollars to me,
than to have somebody else do it.
Sometimes if you're a tinkerer, you luck out.
My wife's,
Chevy, it was a Caprice, air conditioning stopped.
just heard it.
I realized that the air conditioning wasn't cutting in.
I went out there for five minutes,
I just pushed on the wires.
sure enough, just pure dumb luck, that the connection over by,
it's not the evaporator, the big filter on one side.
I just pushed that in, and I heard it click.
sometimes you have dumb luck.
you could have taken something like that and thought, the compressor's not working. Or it would have taken me all day probably if I didn't do that. But
sometimes you have some dumb luck. If you
That's true.
have a little curiosity and you have enough knowledge to check things out.
I know, I feel bad for people who just, when anything goes wrong, a fuse, they just have to take it.
I know
that's tough if you don't, at least give it a shot.
I've got girls, daughters, and I've always said I'd teach them.
one daughter was fairly interested.
I really haven't gotten around to,
I learned because just, learned,
I feel bad about not at least showing them some of the things.
I'm going to do that.
told my daughters in college this year, I said, This summer we're definitely going to spend a little more time on the car.
I said, So you can learn the basics,
A ,
not only economic standpoint, pure safety,
If you can,
if she can get yourself out of a bad situation without having go to a phone booth and stand around and wait.
it can, it can save a lot of time and trouble.
I have the,
there's one expression I don't like, the country expression, broke don't fix it.
All right,
I had to register us in there.
Hopefully you're a basketball fan.
Excuse me.
Hopefully you're a basketball fan.
I'm from Indiana.
I'm glad you are,
I'm not.
I couldn't care about any of it.
go ahead,
would like to talk about, maybe college basketball.
I'd like to see it be more of an amateur sport.
I'd like to see it turned back to the Southwest Conference down here,
I would like to see Texas and all the teams,
since we're supposed to talk about specific teams, I would like to see them turned back to where the college player plays for four years, and then, semi pro
and just go on and are stolen by the League, in three years,
I'd like to see them to be true athletes where taking a regular college course.
I'd like to see,
they didn't ask that, but they're talking about college teams,
Since can talk for hours, go ahead,
if you like sports go right ahead with this one.
I know like what you just said,
their best player this year, averaged twenty points a game
they had to make him sit the bench. And actually kicked him off the team because, his, grades, even though they passed Big Ten standings and they passed, N C double A, did not pass, Purdue requirements.
That's surprising have better requirements.
That's good.
That's what I like to see.
Go ahead.
I'm all for that.
he was treated like all the rest of students,
That's great.
their very best player,
they probably lost over half their games, by twenty points, which is what he averaged,
he had to sit,
he was kicked off the team.
they've got three players, top, recruiting class this year that
they're going to have to be,
prep school they go to before they can play
because they aren't smart enough.
it's just sad
Purdue, even though they're one of the few schools that really, stress academics, they're suffering,
I think there's a lot of inconsistencies when some conference, players come from outside of Texas, and play us here.
they're obviously practicing sixty hours a week,
there's no consistency.
Seems to me, that Purdue, when they're trying,
a student athlete is spending so many hours in class.
He only has twenty, twenty five, whatever hours he has to spend on practice.
another team has about twenty hours to practice a week.
there are teams that practice sixty hours a
they're not going to class at all.
what I mean by semi pro.
There's too many semi pros in college
I think they ought to get rid of that.
That's what happened to this guy.
didn't go to class, and so they just said, you can't make the grades,
you're going to have to,
see you later.
baseball has minor league system,
I think that the football and basketball, should, them go, have a semi pro team.
I think, I'd like to see college athletes,
let's talk about college basketball.
I like that.
Any basketball that I like,
I like that.
don't, I don't like the pros at all.
I don't either.
they're high scoring,
there's no defense it seems
they just kind of score a hundred twenty five points, (( )) hundred twenty two,
I don't really get much out of that.
it is fun to watch some real disciplined teams play college.
I saw Princeton, I think it was, or Harvard play this year.
They're all white,
their starting guard had S A T scores of fifteen hundred.
it was so funny to watch them play against the other teams,
it was like, they played so much smarter and more disciplined.
I don't know if they won very many games.
I don't know,
their style of play was so much different from
from the teams that just run and gun.
I like high school football, which again is not the subject,
that's so much fun to watch because pure amateurs, and there's no money involved.
You go to college,
you don't really know,
it loses it somewhere.
Whatever sport it is, if they're really putting a lot of money in,
these players, let's face it, ninety percent are being paid.
I'd like to see college basketball and all the other sports go back to being amateurs.
I don't care about seeing the best players in the world play.
I like to see the people going to Texas just play, the ones that are in class.
I'd like to see athletes, or fellow students, like myself, play the game.
in fact, I like amateur sports.
I don't see it has to be,
I don't think that college football, or basketball, should have to be semi pro,
I wish it'd return to the good old days of the amateur. Everybody play.
That's what I like,
everybody should play,
I'm kind of racist, I guess, when I say, I like to see the white guys do well, . Instead of the run and gun all the time. *
again, I'd just like to see
play basketball,
I don't like to see the ones that have no intention of going to class,
Then, again just picking a school,
Texas is
In fac ,
is usually not the best team,
the other teams I'm sure practice a lot more,
S M U down here in footballs and trying to get back, to having true student athletes,
that's what I think is a lot of fun.
There's just so much pressure on the schools, I think to win, though,
To win and money,
it's like if they don't win, they don't get any money, so, the school suffers, which is kind of bad,
that's just how it always is.
I always thought that was for an education and then sports of course is part of the education.
I don't think that sports has to make a lot of money, or you do away with it.
I don't know why the don't keep fencing and all that,
they seem to be,
there's articles in the TIME magazine and all about whether it be basketball or anything else.
If it's not making money, then we'll do away with it.
that's not,
I thought it was so that you give them an education of that particular discipline.
I just think that amateur sports should stay in universities,
that's where it's at.
I'm sure saddened to see,
I think it was Wisconsin or somewhere, they were getting rid of fencing and a couple of other things.
I don't know what it was.
It just seems so sad to have to only rely on, college football.
Is that all they're going to have to make money,
I didn't think that was the objective, to make money.
it seems like it is.
It really is.
I know there's a lot of pressure on schools to have a winning program.
To get the best athletes so they can
keep their seats full.
You went to Indiana University?
a T I er up in Sherman?
very good.
Are you from Dallas area?
I'm in the facilities there, down here in Dallas.
I guess football is the big sport down here, isn't it.
certainly high school football, and college football,
again high school football is just so much fun to watch,
not everybody plays of course, but they're still,
it's good
it's still,
you know the kids,
absolutely no money involved whatsoever,
you know they're going to class,
You heard of,
it's real amateur sports.
Have you heard of Damon Bailey.
The I U white guard that plays.
last year, when he was in high school, they drew a crowd of forty one thousand for the state finals, when he played.
Is that right?
Forty ,
I never heard (( )) ,
I never been in a game in high school that had that many.
pretty big.
he's from Indiana,
he plays for Indiana now.
Indiana (( )) him to be a lot bigger than pro basketball up there.
The Pacers don't really draw that big of a crowd .
the high school games, that seems to be the big attraction, and college.
my office mate here, Earl, goes to all the Maverick games
he loves that.
would be,
this is a great question for him,
to talk about basket .
he's got,
I'm looking at his calendar,
he's got all over the place,
he goes to a lot of the Maverick games and everything.
I can't get interested at all,
listen to him,
occasionally I'll watch them on channel eleven,
I can't,
more than five minutes of a basketball game, just seems about,
that's it,
of, pro anyway.
seems like you could set the score at a hundred
and then give them five minutes to play,
then it'd be the same result.
they shoot so much,
the last, what, five minutes they decide who's going to be the winner, I guess.
I'm surprised a little bit when you're talking about basketball how some players work.
Mavericks had, two players this year that they got rid of last year.
I'll think of them in a minute.
Perkins, Sam Perkins,
can't think of the other one.
They're both.
is he one?
Pardon me?
they both left this past year,
both of them were on playoff teams,
they benefitted tremendously by leaving the Mavericks.
Sam Perkins, here, he's one guy I did follow
think he was in Virginia,
I can't think of what school he went to,
I guess he's been here about five, six, seven years in the pros.
he was,
he never quite achieved super stardom that he had
basketball, they have a nice,
I don't know if you've down to the sports for Reunion Arena.
what kind of garden do you have?
we've tried having,
let me turn the T V off,
we've tried having a vegetable garden,
I'm from Chicago,
the way that, bugs and weeds grow down here is very different from Chicago.
we have tried several years in a row,
we've given up, between the fire ants, the pill bugs, the weeds, the drought, and a hundred and ten degree heat all Summer,
we just kind of, decided to go with a few flowers and give up on the vegetable garden .
We had to put so much poison out on everything that we thought, Who'd want to eat that stuff.
we have really been frustrated by our gardening attempts here,
if you really water a lot, you can do it,
when you have to pay for water, it really gets to be an annoyance to have to water constantly.
right now we're just,
Do you have a lawn?
just try to maintain the lawn and the shrubs right now, and the trees.
We have a peach tree.
That's the extent of food supply.
that's nice to have
what do you do up there?
we've sort of had an ideal Spring.
peonies have been out for now about three weeks
the roses have been blooming for two weeks,
the grass is, this lush green,
of course I've got lots of weeds in mine because,
I don't use any poison either.
I just keep looking at,
I say, Jeez, this is the first year it's been so perfect.
my garden,
my tomatoes are two and a half feet tall
the plants and,
that sounds wonderful.
Gee, this can't,
we'll have a freeze.
If you don't have a frost you'll be all right .
That's what I remember from living up north, is that you'd get everything set and then you'd have a frost
half the stuff would get frostbitten,
you'd have to.
that's it.
Last year, I think it was, my peonies budding in January,
there was no way that was going to make it,
sure enough, we had really mild weather until
I think it was May or something
everything just got hit hard .
that's frustrating.
I enjoy gardening.
My son does the mowing of the grass.
my husband does that, thank goodness, because that's not a pleasure for me .
I don't think that's a pleasure for anybody,
I love gardens that are well tended,
I just,
there's been a few different places I've lived where I've just n ,
I don't know whether it's little old ladies living there or what, but you could just tell that they had affair with their gardens, with beautiful wild flowers,
I love the host of colors that just keep coming all, year long.
was in England once,
that's one thing that impressed me so much is no matter what size yard somebody had, they had a beautiful garden in it.
it could be three feet by four feet or something.
I do admire that, but I haven't really put, too much energy into it.
Course we have two little kids that are two and three years old .
they help you.
that has put a crimp in my every activity other than diapers and laundry, I'll tell you .
that's nice,
the peach tree a start
Tha ,
that's really lovely.
I would love to have different fruit trees.
been wonderful to have the peaches.
They're just delicious.
ha , we to spray some,
we don't have to just asphyxiate ourself with the poison, which is good,
I just,
I can't see the point in doing that and eating anything out of it afterwards.
What about tomatoes,
aren't they pretty hardy?
we've tried them,
again, it's just like the sun scorch.
We've tried them in kind of halfway in the shade and halfway in the s ,
it's just,
have to be prepared to water constantly during the Summer.
People that have been successful out here have done this drip irrigation
and installed that,
that's really what makes the most sense,
you don't have to use so much water,
it really does the job.
it's just amazing how hot and dry and for how long it gets out here.
if you're not really committed to it,
me, real committed to it for about a week, and then I forget about it for a week,
I go, yeah, I need to do something,
by then it's burned up,
It's just too distracting right now with these little ones in our lives,
maybe when I get older I'll find, some joy in that .
I would too,
you've got three or four months you're talking about
bad weather.
it just gets so hot so fast here.
We don't have really a Spring or a Fall
it just, immediately heats up.
that's one thing I miss about living up north, as I remember, the long Springs and long Falls and the cooler weather.
It was really nice.
We always had gardens when I was, living in Chicago.
In fact, my mother once tore up our entire back yard ,
and redid it.
I'll never forget.
Got my stepfather to put in, a waterfall and a little pond in one corner.
that was the most energy invested in anything in the whole time I ever knew him .
They remodeled the entire back yard.
Then they sold the house and got divorced,
I don't know what that says about it all .
she used to love to do stuff like that.
Sounds like it would have been pretty.
it really was.
I enjoyed it there.
maybe when the boys get a little older, we'll do some more planting,
they like to see things grow.
They've done a couple of little seed projects,
I think it would be fun for them.
it sounds like got your hands full .
yes .
They're both running around now.
gardening high on the list,
it's not off the list.
it's very therapeutic,
I think, really to get out there and dig in the dirt,
They certainly enjoy that part of it .
It's just trying to keep anything.
I planted bulbs last, Fall on the side guard, and when I went out there in the Spring
the first day they came out the little one went and pulled all the flowers off,
the flower petals were scattered all over the walk .
He thought, what are these fun toys that mommy put out here with all these colors for me to play with?
At least he didn't eat them,
I guess I could be thankful for that.
Maybe next year they'll do better.
If they survive this year.
good luck to you.
Nice talking to you.
It was nice talking to you too.
Bye bye.
Okay .
Have you ever, organized a family reunion?
I have never organized one.
have one, we are going to have one on Memorial Day, I guess.
They have had one the last two years. We go out to my dad's farm and spend the night.
Go fishing and stuff
How many
like that.
people usually show up?
about ten.
it is not that big.
we have had sort of weekends like that too.
I never thought of it really as a reunion.
I sort of think of a reunion with all the extended family .
That would be hard for us because most of the family is out in California.
some is in New York
and North Carolina,
it gets,
it is kind of hard to organized.
is there someone,
do you all just sort of chip in and help out with stuff when you are there?
dad has a house out there anyway.
he keeps food out there,
year round.
he does not live there though?
it is a home.
Vacation home.
It sounds nice.
are there kids that are there too, or mostly adults?
The grandchildren.
Just a few.
It just depends,
all my grandparents are dead so, not, none of them are there.
then an uncle is dead.
big family is a lot smaller that it used to be.
Are you all located in Texas?
they live up in Sherman.
It is near Lake Texoma.
all of his children live in the Dallas area too.
That to me is,
Dallas I know of,
Houston I know of,
that is about it .
In Texas.
The rest of it is sort of a big void to me.
we have,
we all got together,
it was about two years ago for,
I was,
I had graduated from college.
I was going to live in France for a year.
my parents invited,
it was not just family,
it was friends too.
we all got together for just a party.
that was kind of fun.
Nice to have everybody together at once and things like that.
French reunion?
not quite French,
it was sort of a reunion before leaving.
It was fun.
It was on, New Year's Day.
it was almost a celebration of the new year too at the same time.
It was kind of fun.
who was it?
A friend of mine had a big family reunion a couple of years ago
everybody flew in from all over the place for the weekend.
it really sounded like it was fun.
I am not quite sure what I would do.
I think it would be fun to rent a big mansion or house someplace,
and have everybody meet someplace where they do not really know.
And have different areas to explore and things like that.
that would be kind of fun.
Meet in the middle.
Where nobody lives .
at least that way it is at nobody's house, so person is responsible for everything.
they do not have to clean up afterwards.
That is for sure.
The cleaning up can be a mess.
do you have horses or anything at your dad's farm?
your dad have horses there?
he does not really have domestic livestock anyway.
he leased, to his neighbor for the cattle to feed on.
I see,
he really does use it as a vacation home.
It is not a farm that he has somebody else run for him or something like that.
Pretty much.
He has a garden and, a lot of fruit trees
and blueberry bushes and things.
that sounds nice.
Do people actually pick the fruit and things?
there is wild blackberries there too.
I, used to,
he gets,
we used to go pick wild blackberries at my friend's property,
we never got enough.
I used to make jam,
I never had enough to really make, more than a jar or something.
it was not so worth it.
off and on it seems like.
Depends on the rain.
That sounds,
does he have a lot of land to go walking
around and things there?
eighty acres.
that is pretty big .
I do not know how they do scale down there.
here it would be a huge amount of land.
Because they,
(( per , is
this )) house here that has a lot of space is three or four acres.
As opposed to
tens of acres.
most of it,
you just spend time on maybe ten acres of it.
that is where the ponds are and where everybody fishes.
We kind of have informal contest.
My uncle, put some bass in, his pond a few years ago.
he put some crappie too.
the bass,
we have not been able to catch any of the adult bass yet.
they are in there, but they are real spooky.
I think my dad put some.
We have a little pond vacation home too.
y ,
really little.
they were having problems with too many goldfish because we had put some goldfish in,
there were too many little goldfish,
the big ones never got bigger.
somebody suggested to get a bass.
they went fishing and caught a bass near some place and put it in there and never saw it again .
Never saw the bass?
we do not know whether it is living
it is probably in there just burping goldfish.
We still have lots of little goldfish.
They propagate pretty well, those little fish.
they really do.
we started,
we have got hundreds in there now,
we started with, I think, ten or twenty little feeder fish that I picked up for a dollar,
no matter how many it was for a dollar.
some of them are probably eight inches long.
he wants your really big ones, the ones that get to be a foot and a half long.
They ha ,
there is a,
you might put yellow catfish in there.
I do not know if they would live very well up in New York,
they get huge.
they routinely use them for bait for, goldfish for bait
for yellow catfish.
we would want to put some small ones in so they do not eat the big guys, the goldfish too .
We could see.
I do not know if yellow catfish live up this way.
catfish do, I think.
They live in the Mississippi River all the way through Minnesota
and up into Canada.
you mean,
we could try it.
That is a good idea.
he was trying to catch them, using little,
I forget,
there's little, nets you can use to catch fish to use as feeder fish and things like that.
Minnow nets or something.
My father was taking those and trying to catch the goldfish.
it was really funny,
one time he left the net in the pond,
he would put some tuna fish or things in the middle of it to attract the fish.
he left it in the middle of the pond .
that night he came out, and the trap was gone.
it was a raccoon that had taken it.
Right .
it was really funny.
you could see that,
you could see where was dragged and things like that.
That is what happens .
do you guys have fishing competitions while you are there?
. we feed the catfish.
They feed the catfish every couple of weeks.
sometimes that is the best time to catch them.
When they are feeding?
come after anything then.
you could catch a couple anyway
during that time.
do you feed them?
mixed Purina,
it is,
it is
especially made for catfish.
I do not know how much different it is from dog food but,
like Purina High Pro.
That is funny.
they come up to the top.
it is the best time to take pictures,
they come up to the top, and you can see their whiskers come through the water.
just kind of vacuum the top of the water.
I have never seen catfish, except on a plate, I think maybe.
I think I have seen once or twice in the museum.
I have never seen them,
just alive someplace.
That would be fun to see.
they are really funny fish.
When you catch them, they make a kind of burping, growling sound at you.
they try to hit you with their tails.
How big do they get?
the channel catfish get up to,
I think the world record is fifty some pounds.
Okay. how long in feet?
Do you know?
is only about three and a half feet long.
That is pretty big though.
they get real fat.
from the time,
stay slender until they get to be, eighteen inches long, and then they start to widen
was fishing .
I think that was when she was three.
she caught a catfish by accident.
She was fishing for sunfish.
she said, "Here," and she handed me her rod and reel
it was just pulling drag out.
it swimmed wherever it wanted to.
That sounds amazing.
I will have to see them sometime.
all righty.
It was nice talking
Nice talking
to you.
to you too.
Bye bye.
Enjoy your, weekend.
Have a nice Memorial weekend.
You too.
Bye bye.
now you can tell me what you do.
I work with computers, just like your son
I actually do research in speech recognition
(( )) part of the reason I'm participating in the project
is to see how the stuff goes.
I was working
actually I haven't worked for any large companies per se
hopefully the job that I will have will have lots of benefits
namely lots of vacations
not real good salary but lots of vacations.
the one John works for seems to have good benefits,
the pay is decent.
where I was working the company
one of the companies I was working for actually had very good health care benefits
which these days I think are really important
health care is so ridiculously expensive.
paying our own insurance right now.
we actually had a little baby
I'm taking a little bit of a time off from work.
a granddaughter .
one thing that I'm very concerned with now is first of all health benefits
it's more important with a family
our covered,
my health insurance only covers, the emergency care.
Do you have major medical benefits?
Right, yeah,
I don't,
helps some,
it depends on what your deductible is
how high it is.
our deductible's five hundred
it's for each
Each person.
it covers the emergency things but it doesn't cover if you get sick
it doesn't cover
doctor's visits, things like that.
five hundred dollars is a lot to come up with for each person to be able to start using your
it certainly is.
major medical, too.
I know where my daughter works,
course we live in rural sort of setting
where she works she has no benefits at all.
her wage is very good .
the type of area we live in.
Of course, living expenses aren't as bad either, though, which makes a difference.
probably the medical care is less expensive, too.
she has to pay for it herself
they have to pay for their own insurance.
I think that in general the doctor's fees are probably lower there,
the insurance would cost lower,
from what I've seen,
from my aunt and uncle really from Florida up to here,
they're not that much different.
I know that friends of mine had a baby up in Boston
their costs were about fifty percent of what it cost to have it in Manhattan.
Is that right?
they were at one of the better hospitals,
good doctors in Boston.
that's a big difference.
I was at one of the big hospitals in New York.
that's a huge difference just between
it's two big cities that I think of as somewhat comparable.
should be.
I was pretty shocked at that.
the other thing that I'm really concerned about,
most companies don't have,
some are starting to have, is day care
Yes. huh.
it would be really nice to be able to have, someone that could watch my daughter at work.
I'd go to work,
if she were sick I could go down and see her, if she needs to be fed, whatever.
it would be much more convenient.
it would be more convenient, too.
It would be more convenient, more productive
I think,
My other daughter works and has,
they have to take their two children to day care,
I don't know how they do it,
I really don't.
getting them there going to work, and then picking them up and,
your hours are,
all the preparations.
much more constrained and things like that.
those three things, the health care, vacation, and day care
are probably the most important benefits.
I suppose I should be concerned with life insurance and, retirement plans
I don't know,
I think those benefits you mentioned, sometimes they're even more important than the wage itself.
If you can get those benefits even,
come out to better benefit an increase in your wage a lot of times.
certainly something like day care at the work place
would make life so much simpler
that it's worth paying, having a lower salary.
I would certainly accept a lower
salary for that.
it would make it a lot better.
everything else being equal
your life would be so much easier.
there's a question of quality of life also.
if it was there, you would really have a little more, knowledge on what's going on
probably, with your child.
you don't feel like you're a half hour away if
something happened.
And, you're less preoccupied with it, I think.
unfortunately, there aren't,
I think I B M has started having that in certain locations.
I don't know,
works for M C I,
where she works they don't have anything like that.
Is that locally?
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Pittsburgh's a big enough city, too.
I wouldn't be surprised if thing's like that didn't happen more in smaller communities before they happen in bigger ones.
Just because people might be more flexible in smaller locations and
things like that.
many times small companies offer better benefits in terms of quality of life than larger companies.
one company had proposed to me that I could come back to work after having the baby, any where between ten and forty hours a week.
And, call my own days, call my own hours,
they were very flexible
would be great,
many times at a large company it's almost impossible
to do things like that.
They say you're going to do it this way, and that's the way it's going to be.
if you get two weeks off, you get two weeks off
and you're not allowed two weeks and one day.
it all depends on what your position is there, too.
that's true in company, I think.
never, I can't say I've never,
I've maybe worked five years out of our married life
the rest of the time I've been an Avon lady and a (( )) lady.
Was that when you were,
those have its pluses and minuses, too.
I've been a consultant recently
and so I don't have any benefits at all
you have to take care of any benefits you want yourself,
the same thing
my husband is unfortunately being paid as a consultant
we tried to argue that he should get more salary for that
than what he is
Usually consultants make very good income.
refuse to give him more salary.
Is that right?
they say they can't pay more than this and that, and they're not allowed to pay him more
than what his previous salary was and things like that
times are rough now,
it's, new,
it's harder to get
the, increases and things
A (( )) consultant really more knowledgeable than everybody else,
it stands to reason they should really more benefits.
he's been doing a long term,
he's being called a consultant,
he's really sort of a temporary employee at a place.
pay him as a consultant but he doesn't get any health benefits,
he doesn't get,
we don't care about retirement benefits.
He doesn't get, vacation benefits
he does a lot of things that get factored into somebody else's salary.
really his salary should be, twenty percent or thirty percent higher
just based on that, not including
the fact that it's a long term commitment for the company
and all that sort of stuff.
they'll do it,
Do you or your husband work for T I,
I'm a contract person at T I
are you,
in fact involved with, Data Switchboard
I see.
that's neat.
do you work for T I?
I've worked for them for several years, twelve now, I guess.
you sound very young
I try to,
like just out of college .
I try to think of myself as young,
have you seen any movies recently?
I'm trying to think,
we saw, DANCES WITH WOLVES
did you?
have you seen that one?
I haven't,
That was excellent.
a hard time with movies that are real long.
I don't know.
oddly enough, I do too,
I get tired of sitting there, and
so does my husband,
we both just thoroughly,
enjoyed it, just really liked it
I've heard a lot of good things about it.
I'm trying to think,
we went to see real funny one,
I can't think now what the name of it was
Was it,
I've gone blank.
went and saw a couple of funny ones.
We saw THE NAKED GUN, TWO AND A HALF
we have not seen that,
we want to see that one.
pretty funny,
we saw,
what was the spoof on TOP GUN,
I haven't seen that one.
I can't think of what that was called.
We saw that too,
tha ,
I was pretty disappointed in that one.
Were you.
through the summer,
we have small children, so we don't get to see too many, but we've seen I guess two or three movies this past summer.
My husband doesn't enjoy the shows as much going to them,
likes to rent them
we watch a lot of them, at home
as they come out,
Have you seen GHOSTS yet?
enjoyed that movie,
Did you?
was real disappointed
I'm a real big Patrick Swayze fan
I was really disappointed in it,
it was ,
I don't think it was as funny as what I was
I guess I was expecting it to be kind of funny
it wasn't
at all,
more of a love story
I was really disappointed in that because I like him
real well.
We just got through watching one with, is it Claude Van Damme
Van Damme,
I think,
and, enjoyed it,
I can't think what the name of
it was of course, one of the typical
kicking, fighting
lots of blood and guts and all that
type movie,
we enjoyed that,
one with Jody Foster, did you see it?
SILENCE OF THE LAMBS?
I did.
Wasn't that excellent?
I really enjoyed that a lot.
that was one stayed with me
for a month,
I just,
I kept thinking about it,
it's amazing,
really, when you stop and think about it, Anthony Perkins didn't have that big a role in the movie
and yet it was his character that was so intriguing,
it was excellent,
of course, he's such a, very good actor anyway
I think he made the movie,
I do too,
I really did
Jody Foster was good, too, but Anthony Perkins was the one really made the movie,
I agree with you.
Is it Anthony Perkins or Anthony Hopkins?
I'm sorry
I always get those
I know
(( )) mixed up.
I know.
I'm not a real big Jody Foster fan,
I thought she was good in that.
I agr ,
I haven't been,
saw her in THE KEYS,
I thought that was a pretty good movie,
I thought she,
I didn't see that one.
pretty interesting movie,
I really liked the SILENCE OF THE LAMBS,
that was really intriguing,
didn't scare me all that much,
don't like to go to movies to be scared,
that's not why I go
I like a good suspenseful
that one was.
that one very definitely kept you on the edge of the seats,
in fact, I want to, rent it when it comes out for my husband to see,
he didn't
he didn't see it?
he won't go see that,
I went with, our daughter
saw it with her, and, enjoyed it.
My all time favorite is WEEKEND AT BERNIE'S.
Did you see it?
I've seen it.
I've seen it,
we saw it at the movies,
we've rented it several times
we just love it,
in fact we have a ten year old grandson
he and my husband and I, we just sit there and cackle
I've seen that.
just get hysterical.
I guess, as far as comedies go, probably my favorite is YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN.
I love that movie,
My husband liked that
he's a big Gene Wilder fan,
Gene Wilder doesn't do that much for me,
I'm a big, Mel Brooks fan
all his movies, I (( )) .
He has a new one out.
He does?
I have seen it advertised.
I don't know what the name of it is.
is that the one that's he's starring in?
that came out, early in the summer or something like that.
I haven't seen that one either.
my husband wants to see that one,
did you see that one that he made years and years ago about sheriff
BLAZING SADDLES.
BLAZING SADDLES.
that's my husband's all time favorite, I think.
that one too, but I thought YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN was better.
Did you?
all kinds of things throughout the whole movie,
I just really enjoyed it,
I'm trying to think,
we saw another one that we thought was really good, early this summer, that was a suspenseful movie.
I'm trying to remember what it was,
All right.
Capital punishment.
what's your views on it?
for myself, I'm personally against it,
we seem to have a duality of, in this country where most states in theory have it, but do not use it.
I'm for it.
I think there are certain crimes that definitely, call for it.
feel that child molestation and murder
I don't see any sense in someone living that does things like that.
don't feel like they're a benefit to society in any way,
of course Texas has it, but they very seldom, put it into effect.
instead all of our prisons are full of people on,
a lot of people on death row.
Texas uses it much as any other state.
Texas is a big state,
which is not very often.
here in Maryland to the capital punishment law,
people are sometimes sentenced to capital punishment, but the sentence carried out.
I'd certainly,
What do they do, just keep them on death row
I think so.
for the rest of their life.
(( )) affair number
in fact, I think that, affected the sentence though capital punishment is available,
the sentence of life without possibility of parole, has become a common one, and is used much more.
Do you have the overcrowding in your prisons that we are facing down here?
I don't know the exact numbers,
prisons are overcrowded.
I know that we have,
really in fact releasing people, that are in there for, not major crimes, but, robberies and assault and things like that,
because they don't have room, then they're coming back on the streets and of course, doing it again,
we're having problems that way,
I know that there are some cases that, capital punishment does not fit the crime,
there are extenuating circumstances on certain types, but I have to say that I'm honestly for it
almost that eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.
certainly in the majority
at least in this country.
we are, I guess, the only one of the major Western nations currently with capital punishment.
I know they use it very,
they do not have it in Europe, as I understand.
at least not in Western Europe.
Probably not in Eastern Europe these days either.
there are many reasons for it,
certainly have lower crime rates and lower murder rates.
you wonder how they manage to do that.
in part the nature of societies, perhaps more homogenous society, in many cases,
arguably, if
arguably is because of, welfare state benefits.
England a welfare?
there's no question they, that, they have, all kinds of cradle to grave, programs, welfare programs providing for everyone some way.
however the question is is that making the difference.
don't know.
we have a lot of welfare programs
if both do and they tend to have less crime, you wonder if that has anything to do with it then,
is it,
in our society, people are brought up over here thinking that, everybody owes them something.
that idea is more common in Western Europe.
do you?
that's interesting.
said that.
I would have said that it was more prevalent here in the United States.
That's an interesting theory.
I'm not that familiar,
I've only been over there a couple of times
I'm not that familiar
Me, too.
with, that,
all I know is that, for instance we were in Germany in,
Why don't you go ahead and start.
we subscribe to PEOPLE magazine and to TIME,
of course I like the PEOPLE magazine because it's gossipy
and it's fast reading,
the TIME of course, is, more newsworthy
it has more world affair type things, of course.
I will purchase a GOOD HOUSEKEEPING occasionally, especially around the holiday time because of recipes and ideas and
and things like that
do you subscribe to any magazines?
have, I haven't gotten any because I just find that I'm not reading what I'm getting because, I have so much going on in my life
that seems to be the last thing I pick up,
I found that I was wasting my money. As much as I enjoy them, when I do subscribe
gotten in the past the PARENTS magazine and, the HOUSEKEEPING magazine
you probably have smaller children
younger children.
are grown
I'm letting their mother read on the grandchildren .
I found that after a couple of years of having a PARENTS magazine it was getting repetitious,
I kind of canceled it anyway for that reason.
the HOUSEKEEPING magazines I do like because have nice, recipes in them and ideas, but, lately they've just been piling up on me,
I figured it wasn't, something I needed at this point in time.
do you think that people subscribe to magazines as much as they used to?
I don't know,
my husband would love to have more.
he's the type who will get the, INC. magazine and MONEY magazine and all the financial type magazines,
my husband does that,
of course, naturally WALL STREET JOURNAL,
and, or SPORTS ILLUSTRATED,
I don't know,
I know a few people leafing through them at the store
you just don't hear people talk about them,
I know years ago, when, my children were young and stuff, I just loved LADIES HOME JOURNAL, McCALL'S, GOOD HOUSEKEEPING,
I took them all
then, I don't know what
in the seventies, maybe, late seventies they changed their format
I haven't,
I don't think there's been a magazine as they used to be
even GOOD HOUSEKEEPING I don't,
some of those have had I consider or what
I get the idea that they are maybe more pricier type magazines, as far as women's magazines.
They seem just to be so chocked full ads.
they are.
My sister, takes, TOWN AND COUNTRY and VOGUE
she sends them to me,
there's really nothing in them but advertisements
for very expensive clothes, very expensive jewelry
things that the average middle class citizen is not going to be purchasing
Right .
if I want to drool or if I want to see how the other half is living
then look through them
I do,
I just,
what I do is I flip through them pitch them then,
they're not something I, take any length of time over.
I have discovered that, with my available time, I would rather actually read a book
than a magazine.
I enjoy books a lot more
that's true.
now I have certainly stopped subscribing as much as I used to,
other than my children have gotten.
they get tons of magazines it seems
Yes .
they're always getting something in the mail
between reading to them and, reading the newspaper,
I have a book that I'm occasionally reading when I get a chance,
I just don't get a chance for those, newsy magazines, the ones that are full of ads,
unless you just want to skim through while you're,
read them when I'm at a doctor's office or, waiting on something like that.
I will read them in a doctor's office, too.
As I said, subscribe PEOPLE and to TIME,
I will go through the TIME, but, usually not cover to cover,
I'll glance through it.
I like reading, the PASSAGE OF PEOPLE or something
I do like the PEOPLE magazine.
reminds me of the old time movie magazines when I was young
that's one, I really like that,
I enjoy that.
It's quick reading
it doesn't require a lot of thinking,
sometimes after I've worked all day
and have things to do at night, I just, I want fluff
I don't want a lot of thinking .
That's true,
that kind of is a good way to do it.
much more relaxing.
Sometimes when I read TIME magazine, after I've read an article I'm real depressed over the situation of the world ,
it seems like we both kind of agree on the subject of magazines
I think that probably I will end the call.
I've enjoyed,
I very seldom read a newspaper.
I get most of my news information from T V.
Mainly, if I'm really wanting an in depth thing I'll watch C N N.
I find it one of the best.
otherwise it's just one of the regular, channels eight or five.
where do you get yours?
mostly from T V too.
I start watching the news at five and watch it at five thirty six
sometimes then again at ten maybe just the headlines.
we do take the DALLAS MORNING NEWS
once in a while I'll sit down and it,
not very often do I read the whole thing.
Quite often just scan through the headlines
I take the DALLAS MORNING NEWS
my husband, he reads it cover to cover.
if he thinks there's something that I need to know about he'll say, here you need to read this
I don't know
I kind of quit reading it, several years ago when the kids were teenagers.
It just seems like I was so busy all the time,
if I wanted to read, I wanted to read something light and relaxing and
and, things like that
I coul ,
it got so depressing .
Seems like it wasn't anything but bad news .
If there's something, that I want to know more about or som ,
might be the Killeen murders.
I've been kind of intrigued.
I guess it's kind of the sadist in everyone .
You just,
will pick up if there's something really gruesome in there .
I'll go through and read it.
I find that I do better with, remembering it and everything if I watch, the T V
they kind of capsize it
and everything
I think sometimes it's,
maybe a little biased,
i ,
(( something ))
get the sensationalism as opposed to just pure facts.
That's true.
I wanted a little more detail
they would tell more about the people that were killed, where they were from and how old they were.
I guess you just, you
Yes. Yes. *
you just want to know
with interest, I found some people that were members of our church which was different.
that made you even feel a little more kin what was going on.
You found some members of your church that had been murdered?
of the type of church that we belong to.
the same type of church.
that made it a little more and that they were from Utah also
that was interesting,
I enjoy the news.
think our seven year old once in a while will sit down and watch it
with us,
I used to,
I didn't used to
when my grandchildren stayed over before and even maybe when our kids were younger one of the channels used to give brief inserts of news at a child's level.
I thought that was very interesting,
I thought that was very important for kids.
they brought down something that had happened like if there was something going on, in the war, they would bring it down to a child's level in words
that they could understand
what was going on.
I noticed that my grandchildren seemed to kind of enjoy that.
The oldest one he's
he would particularly enjoy this
(( been )) a couple of years ago.
that's really interesting.
I even understood it better .
that's nice sometimes when they
they pull it down a little bit like that.
as I said, I ten ,
have kind of a blas3e attitude about, news and news reporting which not good, *
Nobody should get that way about the news.
And what's going on in the world.
do you have a certain station you like to watch when you watch it
We like channel eight.
Do you?
We like it.
It's the best.
channel five for some reason has always been
Is that been
the one I watch.
your favorite?
don't know
it's probably the anchors.
They just kind of catch you.
I very sel ,
I thought it was very interesting,
channel nine watching it when the murders were in Killeen
going on.
They were having news coverage
The C N N, is that what that is?
it was channel nine.
they have that hour that nine to ten
of an evening.
we had the T V on
we were trying to catch all of it,
they were showing some
I was watching,
my husband and I were watching it,
we switched over to channel eight,
the difference in coverage was unbelievable.
I can understand they're kind of behind.
Did I say channel nine to begin with?
. That's
No .
why I wondered.
No, chan ,
I don't get that channel .
channel eleven I meant.
I was thinking nine to ten.
channel eleven,
That is want to go to bed early
it's nice to watch that early news
the coverage wasn't near as good (( as )) when we, switched over to channel eight
they didn't e ,
would you, like to begin or would you like me to start?
I can start.
think one of biggest, improvements in women is that finally you're starting to see them get into, management
you're seeing them, get, elected to, political offices.
not near enough.
I know there's still a long way to go especially in top management .
I agree.
You're not seeing,
looking at T I, you see them in management, but you're not seeing them up there as V P s.
I have a sister that's an attorney in Oklahoma City,
I know the company that she was with,
the women didn't near that the men attorneys had.
And were not, given the same respect.
I agree with that.
think you do see more and more women out there in politics, too, as mayors
or, helping to maybe, get some legislation passed have women have more rights.
I think still, even with that whole, thing with Judge Thomas still felt like the woman was the one that you would maybe discredit first before the man
something the way they had the trial
I just think that still going to take another generation or so before, before the women feel that they're really equal in the business world and that they work just as hard or harder .
it's still,
going homemakers into, corporate leaders is still a big step.
I also think that, women as homemakers are beginning to get more respect than they used to be.
Used to be people would say, do you work, and you'd say, no, I work in the home
then it was almost like a put down, even by women in the work force.
people are realizing that the roles women play in the home are very, very important.
it's getting the respect which is about time.
I think it's true.
I think also people are having children at a older age
very definitely.
it's maybe
you go through college
you maybe work for a few years
you have your first child
both sides of the coin.
That's right.
You know what it's like and how much work it takes to keep the house running smoothly, and to take care of the kids.
maybe people that are just working and think, you just stay at home.
then when they're in their thirties and have their first and second kid, it's like, they lose it .
They say, wow!
This is harder than I thought .
Yes .
to those that have never worked stayed home with the kids, kind of does your heart good .
I know it,
I know.
I know I stayed home with mine and didn't start working until mine were in high school.
kind of does me good.
I think also one of the things really tremendous the fact that the fathers are
Are so involved.
so involved with families.
Which, again, I think helps a woman's role.
Their role has to change
to kind of accommodate us, too.
I know,
I have three children
my oldest is eleven
I've pretty much been home, since Brian was born
just recently I went back to work, last school semester to tutor, high school age students with learning disabilities
I was just out of the house two days a week
I thought, wow, this is really hard,
it was only two days
I was home before three.
getting the baby to day care, getting the kids off to school, I still did everything I always do,
my husband still got up and went to work
only those two,
it made a big difference.
I thought, wow, full time,
I don't think I could swing that personally.
I had to,
course, I work full time,
my daughter and her husband were out of town
I had my grandchildren for
four days during, season
I would work
some friends would take care of the kids,
I would have to get them picked up from there
Pick up.
get them fed, get them to practices
get homework done, get baths.
I was absolutely exhausted.
I bet,
I bet.
these women that are waiting until they're in their late thirties, or early forties to have their first children, I think are absolutely crazy.
know a lot of people,
I know I had my first child when I was twenty five,
that's not considered really young these days,
that's almost,
I have friends have kids just starting kindergarten
forty years old.
maybe a two year old at home,
I think, boy, in my thirt ,
do we just go ahead?
Do you want to start?
we're supposed to talk about vacations
I'm trying to think of the ones that I've been on that I liked the most
probably the one I liked most was Hawaii .
did you get to go to Hawaii?
we went there for our twenty fifth wedding anniversary.
It's lovely, isn't it?
We went, six months after we were married.
we just went to, two islands.
What islands did you go to?
We went to Oahu and Kauai.
We went to Kauai,
we also hit Maui,
of course,
The big one.
the big one,
With, the big one I thought was very commercialized.
It was.
the other two were just lovely.
I enjoyed Kauai better, too.
it was quiet and restful, so beautiful.
It wasn't commercialized.
it was rainy .
, was it?
we don't like to spend the money to go over there and sit on the beach anyway
That's right.
it wasn't real rainy.
We had showers, but, nothing that really got in the way with anything and just very brief ones
we went to Nassau
my husband liked it better than he did Hawaii.
he really did.
I don't know why.
he didn't like Oahu at all .
He thought
he thought Honolulu was just horrible , *
Although we went to that Polynesian Village.
Did you go there?
That was wonderful
we both enjoyed it
That was .
very much.
That was nice,
I've been to Nassau, too.
Have you?
I went on a cruise.
to tell you the truth, think I'd rather just go to the island.
our son and daughter in law they got married last January and they won a cruise.
I know they didn't like it.
we have several friends that, have been on, and just love them.
James and I like,
I don't know,
I think we would get bored on the boat all the time.
I, got sick.
did you?
I did the first night.
I went
with my sister
just, a couple years ago
we both, the first night, just had to leave dinner.
It was bad,
after that got better,
we just,
it was a four day
we were both ready to get off the boat.
Were you?
I think if we ever go, it will only be for a three day.
we've been real lucky.
We've been to Europe twice.
have you?
to London, Europe and touched a little bit of Scotland .
second time we went to Munich, Germany and were there a week, and loved Germany.
is just absolutely gorgeous
I'll bet it is.
with the mountains
we were there in the fall before the snows, started
it was wonderful.
it was just, it was marvelous.
we would love to go back there
we'd love to go back to London.
You haven't been to Spain?
have not been to Spain.
I was born there.
Were you?
Yes .
How old were you when you left?
just ten months.
ten months,
Have you ever got to go back?
I would like to.
Would you?
we went with them to Germany
she would like to go to Spain.
I'm not sure whether I would like to or not.
I would like to go to Ireland.
Would you?
I don't know if I'd like to go there just from
(( )) there is
the problems.
a little scary,
I would still like to see it.
I'd like to see, Italy.
I would love to go there.
That would be nice.
course, there is a lot of places in the United States I still want to go to.
have you been to Yellowstone?
Have you?
We have been there.
was there as a child and then we, we went to California and came back through Yellowstone with our kids.
they loved it.
I was in Utah, in Salt Lake City when I was a, youngster.
I've touched on that.
I'm just about, a half hour, north of Salt Lake.
it's at
my husband works in Salt Lake,
we're real close
that's a pretty city.
like it.
Very clean.
It is.
Utah is a pretty state from what I remember of it.
we kind of like it .
do you like to camp, those kind of trips?
we used to .
We used to camp a lot with our
kids. *
now we like things like the Regency Hyatt .
you like the motels?
We like the motels,
yes .
gone past the camping stage.
We lived in Chattanooga, Tennessee for two years.
did you?
we did a lot of camping out there in the Smokeys
it was beautiful
our kids loved it and everything
we moved to, the Dallas area
it's hot down here
camping is not near as much fun.
the kids were getting older were involved in activities so the camping sort of went by the wayside.
although our son loves to fish
our daughter and her husband are talking now about starting camping with their boys now that they have gotten older.
I've been concerned about crime lately.
it's really scary to listen to the news every night and
to hear about all the problems.
I wondered if you were taking any special precautions in your neighborhood?
think we have a neighborhood watch .
I think.
I'm not real,
we don't get real involved.
We're never home,
I know they were going to start one,
I haven't heard any more since,
I don't really know.
as far as personally doing something, no.
How about you?
, wasn't any outside lights
C and
so we've been trying to install some, outside lights
we put up a fence in the backyard.
Mostly, not so much thinking that we would deter someone to break in, but that our children would be safe
playing in the yard.
I guess most of the crime that I'm concerned about generally is against my kids.
It's scary to send them off down the street a few houses . *
I'm sure it is.
To let them go play with someone
because of what you hear about people getting picked up and
D and
so I have to spend a good deal of time watching them ,
walk down the street and,
say, call me before you leave and
come back
I would, too, if I had kids.
We don't have any.
We did install , a, motion detector light back in our driveway.
so when we pulled up, the light would come on,
also we have a boat back there
we have neighborhood kids that like to get into mischief,
we thought with that light, it would maybe keep them from doing something to the boat .
That's a good thought.
we've been real lucky that,
I don't believe there's been, much trouble in our neighborhood,
it does seem is a lot more here in Plano of, just bored teenagers .
what it is.
We live in,
that's pretty much what it
kids that are bored, like you say.
they don't,
I know my sister in law who lives in our neighborhood
they've had their,
they parked their car out on the street before and it's been spray painted and
a few things like that
I don't know ,
I'm getting scared for kids to get older,
you don't know if it's someone their teenagers know
or is it just random
we've been real lucky that no one in my family anywhere that they live has a victim of, a serious crime.
it's really scary to know that you can live a normal life and try to be a good citizen
it doesn't mean you'll be safe
I know it.
I guess I take safety in knowing that a lot of the crimes that they report are, drug related or
things that,
places usually that I wouldn't be going.
And things I usually wouldn't be involved in.
there's not so much of it completely innocent
victims compared to,
it is scary.
it is.
Were you
(( Really is )) .
raised in this area?
I'm originally from Chicago, but I've been in this area, in the Lewisville area for, about twenty three years.
has it been getting worse that you noticed, or
about the same?
In the last few years, I think,
like I say,
I don't think necessarily in this area here, but
just Dallas in general.
I don't know,
I think back of when I was, younger and in my party days, some of the things I did, I wouldn't be caught dead, like, being out that late at night.
In the dark parking lot .
Take a lot of chances.
I noticed when
moved here from Houston
not too long ago.
of course, we were interested in schools
the schools in Houston all have big, tall fences around them
they're not really very safe
it's been interesting to come to the Plano area where the schools don't have fences at all ,
around them,
it's just a whole different idea at least the people here feel that their kids are pretty safe at school.
in Houston there was the mentality that they weren't safe at school.
that's been something that's been good in this area that you feel like, there's not going to be too many knifings or shootings
at school today.
I guess,
I don't know how people live with that
every day.
I don't either.
Pretty scary.
anyway, I guess I won't take up more of your ti ,
I am new to Texas,
I don't even know what the law is,
in the state,
do you?
of course, we do have capital punishment.
we've, done away with our, quote, fair share number.
that's right,
I think now, that I recall, reading about it in the paper.
different things,
is it restricted to certain crimes?
it's certain crimes, capital crimes, murder, of course, rape,
this sort of thing.
It seems to be a disproportionate number of blacks, that get into the system.
I know,
the one thing that I think is really sad about it, as I recall, from the articles that I've read, is that people who have been there, are going to be killed. there's people that come to the prisons and they're very violent
they want,
they're anxious for someone to be killed .
I just,
I can't see that.
That happens on occasion,
it sure does,
maybe it just depends on, how closely the crime,
has affected you personally.
I don't know,
a person personally.
I think I would be,
I would say, that I am in certain cases, in favor of the death penalty,
I don't know that it's a big deterrent really.
I don't know that it is.
I don't know how we'd ever find out, really whether it is or not.
there is so many chances for appeal, that it kee ,
it goes on for years and years, and costs hundreds of thousands of dollars, taxpayer money.
Ye ,
it's really sad.
I don't know,
I just think,
somehow I hoped that as a people we could be better expecting,
the feeling that it (( ))
someone is calling for someone else to be killed,
Yes, huh.
Is really kind of bad .
it is.
It's a tough, tough question.
It really is.
I suspect I would be, a lot more favor of it if, one of my children were, brutally killed, or something like that.
Like I say, I think it depends on how personally affected, you might be by it.
That's true
there really are criminals that are hard core and,
repeat, (( )) and never have any chance for,
(( )) I don't know,
is it,
do you feel at all like, it's a religious issue?
Not with me personally.
It is with a lot of other people.
It's to me personally,
I don't know,
sometimes I feel,
I do go to church and things.
I don't know how I would feel about it.
like you say, if it hit you personally,
closer at home you would feel,
feel differently.
tough, tough question,
it really is.
Do you think most states have that
or? .
I think most states do have capital punishment.
I think the U S is one of the few countries that still do.
That still does it,
that's right.
they're only,
I was reading something about it the other day,
I (( )) think there was only six or eight countries in the world, that have capital punishment still.
A lot of them had to have not to do so.
I don't know, what they do in place of it.
maybe it's life in prisonment or, something,
know how they handle it
I was surprised to learn that so few countries have capital punishment.
Have that.
it doesn't seem like very many people, are really,
there's a lot of people that are on death row.
But there's not very many people that actually, do get killed.
a lot of them do get their sentences commuted to something else.
it seems like a of people live there,
then through appeals.
I know they do frequently,
they it pretty heavily on television and the newspaper.
If it finally gets to that point.
the first appeal is automatic,
that delays it for a few years just right off the bat.
a lot of, last minute, things that happen cause a person not to,
have to go through the whole thing.
is it,
are we doing lethal injection now?
fairly recent, I don't know, how recent, but fairly recent, in the state of Texas.
Before that, it was, death by electrocution.
seems so awful.
it certainly does.
it's a little bit more humane,
I guess, it is,
it would almost have to be, I suppose.
had to chose, take the lethal injection.
the other one just seems so terrible.
tough question.
It really is.
I guess, if I had to say yes or no, I would say, yes.
would have to lean toward capital punishment, for certain crimes.
do you think that we do it because we want it to deter crime
it's not because we don't want to pay for inmates to stay in prison?
I don't think it's a monetary thing.
I think,
we hope that it will be, some sort of or, you know, an eye for an eye type thing, or something like that.
Some of the crimes are just so brutal and so, useless.
This may seem to be the best way out.
I don't know.
Easiest way out maybe.
I don't think it's a monetary thing.
I notice that the crime (( rate )) was up in the Dallas area .
especially the murder rate, its just gone crazy.
It's kind of been scary,
to think about it
you're hoping there is something that will cut down on that.
I wish I had the answer for that,
everybody does.
You hate to have the dubious honor of being, so high in the,
it's nothing to be proud of,
in statistics,
certainly not.
we have been really fortunate
our family,
hasn't had any crime.
have we been very, very fortunate.
we don't,
it's harder to think about the poor people that have suffered that way.
That's right.
how they would expect,
how they would hope,
hear of people who have, committed crimes, and then they get out of jail and they go, and they do the same thing again.
you wonder why they can't just stop it.
That's right.
maybe you would,
still I would hate to be on the jury that sentenced someone.
would I,
have never been in that circumstance,
I hope I never am, everybody else.
I know when,
moved here, I got a
just constantly, it seemed
fortunately I had small children
I didn't have to go.
it's not that,
I think everyone should have to serve on the jury,
it's just that, I didn't,
I hate having to be in charge of someone else's life.
a big responsibility,
it really is.
I would hate to have to hear any kind of case,
involving a violent crime or anything.
So would I.
That would be really awful.
anyway, I sure have enjoyed, talking to you about this. Although it has been difficult
a tough subject,
it really is.
I'd hate to decide it, but I it's important,
that we decide as a people we're going to do.
That's right.
Anyway, you have a good day.
thank you,
it's nice talking to you.
Thank you,
bye bye.
Bye bye.
Patricia, I was just about to get on my tread mill,
I remembered that I didn't make a call last night,
I thought I'd make one tonight.
I have an exercise bicycle in my bedroom, but it usually's holding clothes .
That's what I did with mine,
for a long time, put it on the handlebars so I can hang them up.
Right .
sometimes she just flops them all over the seat.
that's not why I got it,
right .
How do you like your tread mill?
I like it.
You don't get,
is it less boring than the bicycle or not.
it's just as boring.
You watch T V or something while you do it?
I read a book while I'm doing it.
I was doing that on the exercise bike.
I do that too.
I feel like I'm getting a little better of a workout, and I'm losing more weight on this
than on the other.
Are you?
my legs,
I'm going to turn forty this summer,
I was getting all dimpled up .
those are going away.
that's real good.
We got it at a little bit of an incline.
Are they kind of expensive.
this one, yeah,
this is five hundred.
I know they get cheaper.
They do?
Probably the more you pay, though, the better the machine you have.
I hope so.
you can believe that anyway, right.
I didn't buy it really.
My husband bought it because never get out and go walking or anything,
we go to the lake
we ski and swim in the summer
During the year.
besides that,
in bad weather, you'd have to do something inside.
Do you work at T I?
I think, your voice sounds familiar.
Where do you wo ,
I live in Arlington.
I wonder if we talked before.
Where do you live?
I'm in Garland.
You sound like this girl that I talked to about books, and we got into movies one night.
this is the first time I've done it.
my husband was just running out the door,
he's working at night tonight.
I decided to do it .
I haven't talked before.
what subjects have you talked about?
Let's see,
Oh .
Social changes that we've seen in the last ten, twenty, thirty years.
that's interesting.
that one was.
It's more interesting than the treadmill and the bicycle.
The most boring one was about what meal would you cook for a sit down dinner.
my goodness .
The other woman didn't cook too much either.
(( )) really have a lot of variety.
they do.
I talked to this old woman that was a retired administrator in Ohio one night about education.
she was,
A school administrator.
that could,
That would have been interesting.
a couple of weeks later I talked to the guy's roommate, in Virginia, about different things.
that's neat.
One was about painting.
When was the last time you painted something?
Did you feel like you did a good job?
Did you feel, rewarded while you were doing it.
How long is this going to go on, do you know?
I don't know.
I don't either .
It's interesting, though.
I never heard of such a project before.
how'd you find out about it?
Pardon me?
How did you find out about it?
I don't know.
I guess my husband got a letter at the office,
they must have been asking.
Does your husband work with T I.
I have a friend that had a roommate
that worked at T I
she saw it on the computer screen
(( )) .
and they made copies of it.
they wanted
don't have to work at T I.
that's interesting.
I had no idea that was just for the employees,
I couldn't understand,
I kept getting these calls,
I thought it was an advertisement and they just were also called T I,
there is Texas Industries and different things.
I kept hanging up on them for days, until my husband told me what it was .
Oh .
I didn't know.
if you work for T I you're supposed to get a prize, is what I heard,
if you don't work for them you're supposed to get cash.
then on the letter it says cash or prize.
the prizes are pretty nice.
He brought a booklet home
depending on how many calls, I think three was the minimum.
it went up to, I don't know, nine or ten.
How many calls have you
I don't know,
it sounds like a lot.
This is going on my fourth week to do it.
some of the prizes are pretty nice.
like what,
tell me.
I wish I had that booklet here.
I think I do,
it's right here.
I'll look at the end because those would be the best ones, okay?
they have some watches that look really nice.
There's one that's got some diamonds on it.
For how many calls?
(( )) .
Does it say?
(( )) I haven't quite figured that out.
I thought it was eight or nine,
seems like too nice a prize for calls, isn't it?
Says when we have enough calls from you,
you will receive in the mail a numbered certificate for your calls explanation how to redeem,
for gifts.
Are you listening to him?
I'm trying not to.
He's telling me to start the grill.
Oh .
It says three for a B gift, five for a C gift, et cetera.
this only goes up to F.
I thought that was somewhere around nine.
anyway, it's got these beautiful watches on it.
Let me see what else
it has a, clock radio that also plays
Then it's got, some binoculars, and some pretty brass lamps.
Got a food processor.
it's not all stuff that T I makes.
I don't,
I haven't seen anything in here that T I makes. The Mister Coffee, the double Mister Coffee, the two.
and there's a phone in here that's hilarious.
It has a button you can push,
if you get a call you don't like then it makes machine gun noise .
there's an attache case, and cordless telephone,
there's a card table, doesn't have any chairs, just a card table. some more jewelry, suitcases,
have you seen those lamps where the little balls go around.
You mean the clocks.
I can,
I'm going crazy,
my daughter's playing the piano
I can't think.
It's got one of those,
it's got a lot, pages and pages.
It's got wheelbarrows. (( )) A lot of kitchen stuff, (( )) the mixer, the toaster, a waffle maker, popcorn popper, all kinds of stuff like that.
a calculator but it's not even made by T I,
isn't that funny.
Did they mail that to you, or he brought it to you?
He brought it home.
I believe it came in mail.
Here's a camera and a dustbuster and some tools, a lot of tools, a man might like
you're bound to find something you want.
you're bound to.
All kinds of phones and clocks
here's more jewelry
there's even pictures and little porcelain things to put on a coffee table.
here's some brass animals, brass candlesticks,
they're pretty.
I'm sure you'd find something.
Silver plated bowls and stuff. There's a lot of stuff, it's a big booklet.
do you know you have time limit.
that's okay,
they come on got five seconds to say good bye.
it's been fun,
this is my first time to do it.
We'll keep talking if we want to come up with something else.
Let's see,
I tried exercise classes,
I never would go.
We fin,
we joined, ex.
(( )) I went to Metropolitan a couple of years ago,
I sit and study,
I sit in class,
I have really ballooned up since then,
he's says I ought to join one of those that makes you go,
(( )) ,
They don't either,
(( )) .
the first one I joined, they went out of business
they transferred it to another one that was really far away.
That's a very common experience.
we were going to do it,
there was four of us together.
(( )) .
then forget that,
it wasn't near me.
the second time I was going to do it at Richland College,
I just get with another friend,
we'd end up just smoking cigarettes and riding around like we couldn't find the place .
That's funny .
my husband's just discouraged me on those things.
can make yourself do the tread mill, gosh, that's a good workout.
my husband said he's never joined a course, right.
I got one of those Jane Fonda workout tapes that I dubbed from a friend.
That didn't last long (( ))
I had a baby, I think .
each one of those puts on a few pounds, doesn't it.
How many children do you have?
I do, too.
a girl, one's in college,
I don't baby anymore .
you're lucky.
I've got a step daughter,
she's in college.
there's where the money goes.
(( )) tell me about it,
tell me, (( )) ,
Where's you ki ,
(( )) putting two of us through, isn't he lucky.
me, I'm going, and my daughter Janet in Austin.
I'll probably have to sell the prize I get .
Where you going to school?
U T A right here.
what are you doing?
I'm, going to be certified as an English teacher (( )) teach English as a second language.
Yes, I do.
I just got my certification.
You're kidding.
that's (( )) ,
The test is a booger.
(( )) .
The test, the exit test.
It's hard.
It is so hard.
how are the other ones.
I haven't taken any of the exit tests.
I didn't have to take any other exit test because I've been teaching for quite a while.
before they started (( )) ,
I've heard they're terrible.
Bilingual is just horrendous.
I've had friends fail that twice.
I didn't know any of this.
None of my friends have failed the English or the education ones .
I really ought to take those quickly while I still remember some.
right after you get out.
I know. (( )) .
they really don't help you a whole lot.
I went to E T
I took one course through T W U
most of the (( )) training I've got has been through Dallas just teaching E S L.
Oh (( )) .
From Chapter One Tea ...
she's expecting the end of this month,
she's the only one that lives near by.
that will be nice though.
the rest live in,
one lives in Connecticut,
couple lives in Pittsburg,
one lives near D. C.
still sort of up in that general
area of the country
you can probably see them sometimes.
we see them once in a while, a couple of times a year at least,
the ones in Pittsburg, of course, we see more often,
All right
I'm ready to go.
what kind of recycling do you have in your area?
they've been trying different things.
of the biggest problems seems to be have anyplace to put some of the things that need recycled.
Right now we've recycled glass for we have a glass industry in our community.
which one is that?
Owens (( )) .
glass has been recycled for a long time.
we have a (( cycling )) area set up here at our house,
the Boy Scouts done that for years.
the stores are recycling their plastic bags now.
You can take them back in
they have bins to collect those.
the aluminum cans.
They try to do the, newspapers
they had to close their area down because they couldn't sell it.
They were,
what they were doing was shredding it and trying to sell it to farmers for bedding for their animals,
and that type of thing.
that didn't work,
somebody told me that they were charging as much for it as they did for straw.
Which is why they couldn't sell it,
the farmers would buy the straw if it's a, similar price.
let's see,
is there anything else.
I think by this Fall it's going to be required that the town of Clarion, which we'll live nearby, will have mandatory recycling started
On just particular things
mainly the glass, the aluminum, the plastics.
it sounds like they're doing quite a bit.
we're working hard on it because we're fighting also in our area a large hazardous waste incinerator
which we do not want built
we would like industry to do more before they build these big, huge incinerators.
just feel offer industry some incentives to do more reducing of their waste products and reusing,
some of those companies that are doing it money eventually.
At first, apparently, it costs more to get started.
once they get established, then it's a money saving thing.
our company does some things, all of which I couldn't even tell you about.
I don't know all of them
what is T I?
Texas Instruments.
(( Yeah )) .
son works for,
not for that,
go ahead .
was just curious as how you got hooked up with speech type of thing.
my son works the federal government.
works in a computer laboratory.
it was through him
here at work, each one of us has two trash baskets in our office
one of those is designed for any kind of paper products that, they want to use, for recycling.
They can't deal with every type.
maybe you could tell me, what is the difference between office paper waste and just newspapers?
I guess I don't know specifically, except that, for the paper that they want to recycle, they do not want any newspaper, and things like candy wrappers or, that type of thing.
Let's see,
I have a list here.
they don't want lunch sacks or brown envelopes, phone books.
there are, a lot of kinds of things that they don't want, but then any kind of computer paper, letters, booklets,
they'll even take things that are bound.
it doesn't all have to be white.
They'll take colored folders,
even some of those can have plastic tabs on them.
hard to kind of figure out, which things are the right ones.
frequently have to look at the list,
(( )) .
if it's something that I don't throw away all the time.
they do that
we use, different chemicals and things,
I know about how they take care of that sort,
of thing.
don't know all the details,
they're really on top of that.
there probably some other things that I don't about because we're a real large company.
I just don't have contact with them.
in our, city,
I live in a suburb of Dallas
they have initiated a newspaper recycling
whereby they pick it up from your alley, one day a week
and all you have to do is bundle it.
all around Dallas there are a lot of recycling centers where you can take things, sometimes for money
but most of those are real far away from where I live at any rate.
(( )) it would be inconvenient
Very inconvenient,
it's been very practical to get into a lot of those things.
If they would make it something where they, would pick it up at the curb or at least make it, down the street and at the corner,
type of thing,
more areas where they would pick it up.
that wouldn't be so bad.
our grocery store, like yours, will take the, plastic bags
they'll also take paper bags back.
you mentioned the, glass type of stuff.
The reason I ask you about that is years ago, my dad used to work for Knox Glass in,
Knox is just over the hill here .
Knox, Pennsylvania.
Yes, huh.
they no longer are, active.
they were taken over by Glass Containers years ago,
he worked for them for thirty one years.
for heaven's sake.
he used to travel up there to Knox quite a bit,
I even did once when I was a child,
for heaven's sake.
we only live probably about fifteen, twenty miles from Knox.
I was looking through our photo album not long ago
they had,
had some pictures and things in there of Knox.
I'll be darn,
I guess that's about it, as far as what goes on that I know about.
I think people are getting more interested
they are more concerned.
real concerned about this incinerator because they want to put it right between two of our main water sheds that feed the Clarion
just, we just don't want it anyplace .
We feel should give businesses more incentives to do more recycling and more reduction more reuse and all those things that could be done.
just don't think, we don't think some of the politicians are really interested in our best interests.
been a real struggle and a hardship for a lot of people in our area that we've, been fighting against this thing in trying to have things changed,
to make them right,
I think probably more people, would participate if they just made it a little easier,
like you say, make it, better for companies to do these things,
and get involved in it without huge cost to them,
no one wants to spend a lot of money,
just to deal with trash,
going to pay for whether we pay industry or,
that's true.
already paid industry for these super (( fund )) that's cleaning up.
We paid industry for it,
we to have them haul it away from their place,
where they put it now they found it's not a safe place.
It's leaked
now they have to clean those up,
it's our money that's cleaning this,
That's right.
stuff up.
now they want to put it in,
they burn it
that will make another hazardous dump
eventually they'll have to do something with that.
We'll pay for it again,
That's true.
why not pay industry.
This is my feeling.
Why not pay industry a little more,
and reduce it, not have as much of it.
Also probably look at packaging and,
that sort of thing.
need three quarters of,
what we get.
they think, and probably they're right, people buy it (( easier )) .
that's their marketing.
I know people would be willing to do more, like saving their newspapers and that, if they had a place to take them.
We don't have anyplace right now that will take them.
guess our city, in picking them up must take them somewhere else,
and get something for them.
I don't that it's a big money,
About how many calls have you made on this system?
I've originated only few.
I've received quite a few.
only started doing it after, I started getting calls and said, heck,
that's right,
I'm supposed to make a few calls.
I started about a month ago
this is getting close to twenty here which is I think is about all, our little gift book goes up to,
I don't really know.
I've got about twelve tickets in the mail.
Do you have,
you've (( )) a few?
I've been getting mine.
go ahead,
That's mine.
you pushed the record button.
We're supposed to be discussing the subject.
Go ahead, you first.
I'll tell you,
I've been around for quite a few years and worked for a lot of different companies,
it's hard to beat any of the benefits that, or salaries either,
that we get from T I.
I'm quite pleased with it.
Course there's a few things that, I think I could do better if I was sitting up in the C E O's seat
I think Jerry's doing a pretty good job as it goes.
The one,
it's kind of
automobile insurance,
the ones, that I think are the highest and important to me, I hope I never have to use them, really per se, although I've used medical a little bit
one certainly is high,
worry that it's weakening rather than strengthening
I like to reverse that trend and say I'd like to get those to strengthen,
be better and better.
Then salary continuance, I've never used that one.
I hope I never will,
that's kind of like an insurance thing.
I sure like that one.
That's like automobile insurance.
You never want to get in an accident
you like to have it there.
like I say, I worked for several different companies
there's nothing to compare with, T I here.
I really got caught up back in eighty five,
I got caught up in the oil layoff ,
I wasn't with G S I, but I was connected with, oil,
With T I, or somebody else?
with T I.
I say, I wasn't connected with G S I.
I got caught up in a layoff.
course you get six months, unemployment from the State
what T I did for us They fixed us up with an office with, telephones, access to long distance, computers, a secretary to take messages for us or type, letters,
for us.
they had out of town newspapers
outside consultants.
Didn't they have an outside consultant, too?
I beg your pardon.
Did they have an outside consultant, like employ ,
They did have, seminars every once in a while.
course that was not, restricted just to just us.
the most important thing was that, they had made up the difference between, unemployment pay and seventy five percent of my net pay.
they then,
T I paid me that.
I was able to, not just exist.
lived just as comfortably as I did before I was laid off.
they seem to be a good job of that.
I'm in facilities,
our organization those facilities over in Park Central now.
I guess they've been using them for six months now.
I've known several engineers that got laid off
they said it's like getting a Ph D almost,
the much they learn over there, after they've been laid off,
one engineer said it was really an education.
just learned, like you,
he said he learned a tremendous amount that he never would have able to pick up on his own.
He was very thankful for that, too.
this was not a learning thing by any means.
It was just a,
To have an office,
an assistance trying to find another job.
he said he learned so much
he had a Ph D in how to get a job after he was,
through the whole process,
several months.
He did eventually get a job.
course I went through this, what, about five years ago.
They may have improved it considerably.
Yeah, apparently.
It's very sophisticated.
I guess it may be one of the best, that anyone's doing.
that's one of those extras that you don't see in the, the handbook,
You're absolutely right.
That's a good one.
What do you think about pensions?
Anything on that or,
I have,
I'm getting close to retirement.
of course I've been looking into it but, since I'm only a yellow badger,
I won't be getting a whole heck of a lot from T I,
as far as retirement is concerned.
What do you think of a pension that goes from one company to the other like
been thinking about that for years,
I've never heard of such a thing.
I know.
That's what I'm saying pensions,
just like saying, you've only got, so many years,
say you work for two, three companies, you take your pension with you after you're vested.
And then just add the money together like you do with a four O one account,
it's your account, period.
It doesn't matter where you go or anything.
That's your account to roll over.
sounds like a hell of an idea.
I didn't know there was such a thing.
there isn't.
saying that's the question.
What do you think could be better
I'm saying that pensions, say in the year two thousand or more when social security goes away, which it probably will,
I think they ought to have a pension at least that you'd never lose.
you work for a company seven years,
by all means.
what would be the difference between that and social security?
social security's going to go to way, I think
invest your own money.
You have no control over your social security.
it's not paid for by the current,
say we retire after the year two thousand, social security's paid for by the twenty five year olds.
they may rebel and you won't have any social security. Where, if your money was in your account, you can never lose it,
it's there.
You don't have to depend on anybody to be putting that money in for you,
That's just a thought.
if they say which,
like the idea.
Course, like an I R A
instead of having socialized pension, it just would be really money that you and your company,
maybe you had to put some money in it, too,
I don't really know.
I can see where they'd need to do something on that because the statistics are,
you don't work for a company twenty years through no fault of your own,
You work for five, six, seven,
a lot of people I know, guys,
what I've done.
bounced around.
About every ten years,
I change.
I have, too,
quite that often
I guess fourteen now here at T I,
I hope to make twenty five which
say if something happened to me,
they lay me off,
you have a pension
then you'd have to try to get a pension in another one.
It would be nice if they could get them together.
I do worry about medical, though.
Again, knock wood that, I haven't used it.
I guess you,
I'm sorry,
you really do use it throughout the year, because you get your teeth fixed and all that,
I'm not,
I'm talking about major items
I haven't used it for anything major.
I'm glad it's there, though.
knock wood,
I haven't used mine for anything major. Just doctor visits
have H O M A
I use H O M A.
I like that, a lot better than AETNA
I have the regular.
I haven't,
I can't complain about it because I haven't used it
every time I needed it, it's,
fallen right in line for minor things
I guess I'm the one just supporting most of the others.
doesn't it work, you don't see, anything until you spend the minimum?
Don't you have to spend the minimum of two, three hundred?
I think it's two seventy five for a family
the dental is right away,
if you,
I have the same dental you have.
the medical you have to have a deductible.
I don't have a deductible.
I pay a straight five dollars for anything, a doctor visit or drugs .
drugs are okay,
I'm on that, plan, where I take blood pressure medicine.
If you take an allergy medicine, anything you need a prescription for, for more than six months, you get it for, used to be six bucks,
they just raised it to twelve.
that one I haven't heard about.
one that's in there.
The forms are right in personnel.
Fact, you may be able to of that.
It's through Baxter Labs.
I have high blood pressure problems myself.
Maybe you still can do that.
buy your pills one at a time?
thirty days at a time.
in your forms.
Go right to personnel.
I don't know whether you have to about an H M O.
I don't think so.
You turn,
you get your doctor to give you a more than six months prescription
they're twelve dollars,
again, they just were six,
they just raised them to twelve this year. Twelve dollars for a three months supply.
Or amount is,
I don't want to say three months,
it's a lot cheaper,
allergy medicine's really, expensive
that blood pressure medicine is fairly expensive.
I take two.
Go right to personnel.
They got the forms in personnel
maybe I'll tell you something you didn't know about in benefits .
I just might do that.
I do it,
it's a very common thing.
It's through Baxter Labs,
thanks for the tip, Jim.
I shall look into it.
What else.
I'm sure we're getting close to our five minutes whatever, here.
. let's see,
we discussed, medical and dental,
What other benefits,
salary continuation.
I think that's a great one,
again a hope I never use that one.
That means you're really sick if you have to use that one.
What about vacation?
I'm satisfied with the vacation.
I don't know what else,
get another week and,
only got fourteen years
I'll get another week when I hit fifteen.
that's right.
it's reasonable.
Four weeks is a lot, I think.
I know some people who have twenty five years and thirty and they want more
I've got just eleven years
I don't think I'll ever see silver badge.
be around that long.
the way things go, I think I'm going to have to work till I'm seventy five and, when I retire get a part time job,
what do you think of our trial system? .
I don't really know what to think about it,
I do know that they're not,
they'll give somebody twenty five years and they'll serve what, eight months.
Have you noticed that?
I have noticed that kind of stuff does seem to happen quite a bit,
I don't even know what to do about that sort of thing.
I think trial by jury a lot better than leaving it up to one person.
I think trial by jury is very good.
I actually,
something about it such that the,
(( )) .
leaving sentencing up to the judge only.
I think that's actually good idea.
Leaving it up to the judge?
sentencing, not the trial itself.
I think that, that judges are probably more informed as to
how serious the nature of the crime is,
and stuff like that
the general public doesn't know that if they're sentenced to life that they won't serve life.
Course the judge will know when he'll be up for parole and all that.
he'll be able to give them the maximum sentence, in some cases there.
I must not have understood the whole thing
I didn't hear them say that,
they give that an example of something that,
that might happen ye ,
I think if the entire trial was left to one person
I've got a four year old,
you can hear.
I don't know,
can take vendettas out on people,
and everything.
Or just,
there are two people who say well he just looks guilty,
that's true.
a wonderful way to get off jury duty,
Someone says to you,
when they ask you want to be on,
when you're called for duty say oh yeah, I want to be on jury duty because I can spot a guilty person a mile a way.
They quickly let you off jury duty I hear,
know that you're biased.
that, that, the way it works there,
Anyway, I think that probably having it,
what being unanimous.
that's sort of a strange case because I wonder what happens when eleven people thinks someone's guilty and one person doesn't,
one person thinks they're not guilty
they can't decide for hours, unless they convince that one person,
Does it have to be unanimous?
I believe it does have to be unanimous, actually.
then they consider it a hung jury,
they, have a retrial,
or do they.
I think they either have a retrial eventually they call it a mistrial or something.
I haven't been to law school.
me neither.
I don't know much about that,
I just know that,
I wonder
sometimes I think about it actually,
I think what if I were that one person and I was completely convinced that, that this person wasn't guilty,
you don't have to be really convinced that he's guilty,
just if they can't prove he's guilty
what if eleven other people are saying one thing, and you're,
you're the one person saying the other thing.
would you give in.
I would hate to be that person because you would be, bombarded by all the other eleven jurors
(( saying )) .
to, just say he's guilty so we can get out of here and go
home. *
I wonder about those things, or even if it's,
guess if they were to say, it doesn't have to be unanimous,
what's the cut off number, seven, five, six, six,
how do you decide.
Is it,
how do you decide what number of people have to say that.
I know,
it's too bad one of us don't have some knowledge on this,
I don't know,
I just hope if I ever go to court that they all, unanimous on not guilty .
you've seen like these T V movies,
Kyle, I'm talking,
how they'll,
through the whole movie, you think this person's,
I don't know,
one thing that I thought was pretty weird is how somebody can't be for the same crime.
I've never quite understood that.
I just think weird because I've saw, of course, soap operas,
I'm an soap opera fanatic.
This one guy had, framed himself to make it,
we ,
he really did kill the person,
then he set it up where it looked like somebody was trying to frame him
he was on trial for it,
it came out that he was being framed,
then he was found not guilty,
th ,
directly after the trial they found out he really was guilty
he couldn't be tried again.
they can't do anything about it.
I often wonder about that,
I wonder maybe,
I don't, I don't, I don't know the law on that
if they have new evidence, retry,
can they, bring you back.
I don't think they can.
I saw it on L A LAW, too.
that's true,
I've seen the same thing on L A LAW as well.
about that woman.
W ,
why that,
must be some sort of deep seeded reason for that,
you can't be tried for the same trial because that would bias the, the jury or something,
I'm sure that, it's the lawyers,
after the, defendant, defending, the defendant's lawyer and the prosecuting attorney.
I'm sure the prosecuting attorney could make a real good case if he, knew all the details of the defendant's, case.
of the defense (( )) .
Right .
there's also the issue of, for instance, very often you can't,
when someone on trial for something, you can't bring up prior convictions.
if they're on for rape, bring up the sexual assaults and stuff, or whatever.
that's completely beyond me,
I mean that's jus ,
I know, if it's related,
I wonder,
if it's related to the crime, they should be able to.
if this man accused of raping someone, then I think that something like sex,
the fact that he assaulted someone is a crucial bit of evidence,
that adds to the fact,
they're not allowed to do that.
I never understand,
I'm sure there are some deep seated reasons, to,
often times I wonder about rules like this
I'm sure that there are some reasons for good.
out of it, though, because we , you're allowed to show their character,
do you know what I mean.
if it shows that their character's, capable of lesser thoughts like that and stuff.
Then right,
to that.
Then they should be (( ))
that's what I think,
quite understand.
Tell you what we need to do is go into law and then we'll be able to,
or vote.
Do you vote? .
Do I vote?
do you vote?
Oh yeah,
I vote,
you'll help out a little bit .
Putting the right people in the office, that's a lot to do with it too.
of the politics will pass laws and stuff that the, general public wants,
they'll be revoted and all that.
that, that's very true,
then again times they don't, as well.
Often times they don't,
they just go,
you've got people like ducks
they sort of don't care about anything and just want to go ahead an,
they, sit on the fence,
I talked about this the other day,
they won't say yes and they won't say no to certain issues just because they don't know what the public wants, or the public's split on it.
That's true,
that's true.
I often,
like you say, that's another discussion,
I have had that discussion before as well.
Where you weren't,
wonder about the of it all,
most of it is politics,
even in the courts.
even in the courts they're all appointed.
that's even another issue,
should judges be appointed,
often times I look at friends,
we had, a serial killer around here, who killed eleven women.
was that some guy that was attacking women jogging?
choking them,
his name is Arthur (( )) .
did they have a T V movie about him?
I'm not sure if they had one yet,
I'm sure they will.
on some sort of news special though,
he killed,
he was just on trial maybe a year ago.
how was he killing the women.
he was strangling some of them.
Were they jogging on a,
usually they were prostitutes, actually.
this is a very sad case.
The man was let out,
he was in prison for, sexually assaulting two children.
that's what I mean,
then they let them out
they're able to do it again.
they let him out
allowed back in the town where he had done this
Rochester instead
they realized later had killed about between eleven and twelve women, at least
I think my sister is married to a guy from Rochester.
way up north here,
way up nor ,
I'm originally from Kentucky.
Still way up north, sort of,
I was up north too.
that's one of the reasons I think judges should be the ones to sentence people
they do know,
if you sentence them to three life times, then they probably won't get out on parole.
Won't get out, exactly,
this man was sentenced to, I think, three life times.
just horrible,
his trial televised and this and that,
what they were pleading was, they were pleading insanity.
it's clear to me the man is insane.
of course.
he should be just locked up for life.
they just need to do something with him.
He needs to be annihilated.
I don't know what you do with them at that point, if you're that crazy,
struck me is, they had a psychiatrist testifying for hours and hours
by the end, I realized that maybe it would have been better if it wouldn't have been a jury of his peers, but if they had a jury of psychiatrists instead, to sort look at it,
I don't think it's feasible,
it would be an interesting thought if you're,
it's supposed to be a jury of your peers,
they couldn't have bunch of psychotics up there .
give them a bunch of psychotics but at least have a bunch of psychiatrists,
just to look at him and decide from then.
they would (( )) ,
Did they have a trial by jury for him.
What's th ,
they did.
They had a regular trial by jury for him,
major changes have affected your life?
I think that, working is the one that really affects me most strongly right now.
You mean yourself, or women in general?
women in general, also myself.
it used to not really make a difference to me,
at least I didn't think so.
my mother worked,
I kind of now wish she hadn't.
she had, stayed home,
right now I'm kind of stuck because I'd like to have children,
I'm not ready to do that because when I do have children I want to stay home.
I'm having to, try to figure out a way to be able to do that.
our society right now that's really something not respected,
it's not easy to do
at all.
there's a great deal of sacrifice that has to be made on the part of a family wife is going to actually be a mother.
That's interesting,
that relates to the thing strikes me the most,
I'm sure labelled the cause, because what strikes me the most in the changes in society is the way kids behave.
I think (( )) they have to be related.
That's right,
that's right.
I was thinking it just,
my complaint be, that I think that, the kids in the neighborhood run wild,
destroy property,
they, steal each other's toys and stuff
there's just no respect people or property,
I guess, when you stop to think of it, these kids have probably been deprived of a lot of attention that they've needed all their lives.
I think that that's probably true.
I just wish there was a way,
I know that in Sweden, what they have there, it's really their medical plan, but it also deals with this subject, because if a woman, is working
and I think even if she's not, and has a child, the government subsidizes her to stay home and raise the child.
for how many years?
Until it,
I'm sure until at least school age, and maybe longer.
that's great.
What this does is, it allows the government to subsidize her to be the mother of her children rather than to subsidize child care
to raise the child for her.
I think that that's much, much more viable solution,
I agree, a hundred percent, a hundred percent.
I guess I was lucky, because I was teaching,
I was able to just go to a class and teach when my son was little,
I'd be gone, an hour and fifteen minutes or something at a stretch.
that's great.
very soon he was old enough to just go and sort of stay in my office
nobody seemed to have a big problem with that .
That's an interesting issue though.
what else?
there's been so many,
how do you just,
would have is,
I guess I'm being, beyond the age of thinking of problem.
I had an argument recently with my boss,
I think it was, about the need for women to work.
I think you put your finger on it, when you said that they're not respected if they don't work, because it seems to me that a lot of people I know, women I know, are doing very menial jobs in a certain sense, certainly financially
when I see the amount of clothes that they buy how much it costs them to buy fast food on the way home
I'm sure that they're not money for the family on this
probably you're right.
I don't see how they could be, especially not if they have to pay for child care.
even families that don't have child care,
when I think of this one friend who makes probably twenty thousand dollars a year, I'm sure she spends at least that in clothes, plus, fast food every day, and out to lunch every day,
You're probably right.
If she sat down and looked at it she'd be like, God, what am I doing this for,
even though they don't have children, have relatives
the husband would certainly like a lot more attention,
she wouldn't have to hire somebody to clean the house, and do the gardening .
guess you're right.
our society demands women to work if they're going to be respected.
Really sad .
religion has changed, too.
that's true.
some people now it seems like are turning back toward actually trying to find out what they're in it for, instead of just,
some places still it seems like it's a social club.
it's just a place to go, to visit, to wear your nice clothes, to sit around and talk,
I think a lot of people are really, searching now to out who they are, and who God is, and what all that really means now.
that might be a positive change in society.
it's beginning, I think.
I guess I haven't seen that as much in this area, although every now and then you hear about it.
among, people I know, I don't see a great,
there are those people who had serious questions all along, and, are sort of pursuing it
the churches here are growing, leaps and bounds,
I thought it was more because of very transient nature of the area
and that people were going basically just as you said, as a social to meet people, and that,
it's hard to judge,
there are a lot of things changing, I suppose,
Just, environment, I find
sort of,
I wonder all our chemicals that the foods we eat,
young people that I know are getting very serious diseases
I guess that's always happened.
Maybe not as much as now
it's just,
more unusual now, when, somebody quite young gets certain kinds of cancer,
in the past, maybe the same percentage got them,
we didn't know it,
I don't know.
I guess we've sort of run dry a little bit.
Okay .
It was nice talking to you.
Nice to talk to you.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
do you watch much T V?
I watch in the evening with my kids .
Your kids.
How many kids do you have?
I have four children.
I have got two.
That is about all I want .
it keeps you busy, doesn't it?
they do.
They are still babies.
my children like to watch SESAME STREET.
I watch with them every once in a while,
that is not my favorite programs.
We have only get two channels.
We do not have cable.
I am not crazy about T V much.
It just,
it kind of is an idiot box.
SESAME STREET is a good program
I do have that on videotape,
I will let him watch that every once in a while.
he has learned to count to twenty from that.
It can be very
There are shows I like.
I like good family shows,
I let my kids watch things like LITTLE HOUSE ON THE PRAIRIE.
the COSBY SHOW kind of unrealistic as a family unless you live in upper class and have money.
I think that sometimes the things they show on there though,
the problems that their kids get into, good to, show that they do have problems anyway.
they also have a lot easier time disciplining their kids than real people do.
like I said, real life is not that easy.
I watch a show that I like for entertainment.
it is called the QUANTUM LEAP.
I love QUANTUM LEAP.
I watch that show every time,
That is a good show.
like, he has to help with the people becomes.
because it is not a show that he just becomes these people and then he lives there for a while and then he is gone.
He has to do something positive to help them.
He always got to change history is what it is.
Usually, yeah.
That it is so good.
I was glad when they put that back on this channel,
Me too,
me too.
because like I said, we only get two channels because we do not get cable.
still my little boy, he watches videotapes.
He won't,
this is terrible,
I do not like him sitting in front of the T V all day.
that is not terrible.
I do not think that is terrible at all.
it is a not really a good baby sitter .
It is really not.
He needs to get outside and play.
he is four years old,
he just does not like to go out there by himself.
I will let him watch the T V when I am wanting to get my house work done.
other than that, I do not like him glued to the T V all the time.
I do not think healthy all the time either.
my kids like go play with their friends,
I guess I do not mind too much when they do watch a little bit.
there are shows,
I do not have cable either.
there are shows that I really put my foot down on.
If there starts to be a lot of violence,
I do not go for that.
I will not let them watch that.
we made the mis ,
there is a lot of language or,
We made the mistake of getting ROBOCOP.
that is one of the worst,
I do not let him watch it anymore. Because
especially where they kill somebody, it is just not good.
it is just real violent.
today I watched,
it is like they show bloody,
they show it in slow motion.
and everything like that.
before, in a western or something, olden days,
You would see somebody get shot,
they would just fall down.
they were gone .
it was not,
So graphic.
not like today.
Today really graphic.
They try to make
it too realistic.
Too much realism I think,
I don't,
Now he is watching HONEY, I SHRUNK THE KIDS right now.
that is a fun show.
I really
like that one.
little ROGER RABBIT on before that.
That is cute.
they have got THE HE MAN,
The cartoon or the,
MASTERS OF THE UNIVERSE, the
That is a real cute show.
That has good moral values too.
HE MAN?
I think,
good versus evil.
it sounds like we have the same tapes for our kids anyway.
At least we have the same
Language too.
A ,
language and violence and sexual,
get kind of, saying, "I am sorry kids, this is",
think it is important that I see what they are watching.
They do have those parental control things on the, remote controls. where you can block out what channels you do not want them to watch.
You mean in cable?
I do not know, because I do not have that.
stepfather and them have, my stepfather, my father in law, and them have that.
they do not have any kids,
they was told how to use that.
still, when the kids get older, they learn how to break through that parental control.
do they?
They are too smart.
I think alls you have to do is push a couple buttons.
I am hoping that he will grow up not really caring much for those movies because, now we have got a lot of western tapes.
JOSEY WELLS, now he loves to watch JOSEY WELLS.
I think that is a good show too.
Clint Eastwood.
like THE MAN FROM SNOWY RIVER, we have,
my husband likes westerns.
he also likes STAR TREK.
STAR TREK is good movies, good shows.
The, series?
We have got a lot of those.
I think not even the old one but the new one too.
I like
both of those .
THE NEXT GENERATION?
My little boy is crazy about Captain Kirk.
my little girl has Mister Spock's ears .
d , ,
I told my husband he cursed my kids.
They were both born with pointy ears.
Not real pointy.
My little boy grew out of it.
that is not a problem anyway,
it is fun seeing the show anyway.
now I like, everything Mi ,
not Michael Douglas,
I can't think of his name.
Kirk Douglas?
man, right now BONANZA, and then he did LITTLE HOUSE ON THE PRAIRIE.
Michael Landon.
Michael Landon.
There you go, Michael
now there,
I have always liked
and thought he did good shows.
Like HIGHWAY TO HEAVEN?
Here are some cookies, Kyle.
I liked HIGHWAY TO HEAVEN,
thought that was kind of neat though.
I loved LITTLE HOUSE ON THE PRAIRIE, especially when Melissa Gilbert grew up.
She was
kind of like my idol ,
when I was growing up. Because I am twenty seven,
it is,
she is about the same age as I am.
I wanted to be just like her, because she is so cute.
I liked that show because portrayed, I thought, really well, pioneer kind of days.
I liked it,
that is about the only, show I have seen where every time they sit down at the table, they pray
before they eat.
I thought that was real neat.
Because there is not a lot of shows that do that.
they have this little cartoon that is on Sunday mornings with,
Now what is that?
I remember him in school,
I do not,
it is just this little dot with arms and feet and little eyes,
his parents are there.
They have it before one of the church things,
church that comes on?
it is a just this little dot.
he will go out and get himself into trouble and come home,
the parents will tell him that there is a verse in the Bible that will help him with that,
I have
It is just,
not seen that.
it is,
usually we go to church on Sundays.
we will miss every once in a while.
I will let Kyle watch that,
he just,
I even like Jot.
it is funny.
What channel is it on?
It is on channel,
let us see.
You are in Plano?
it is twelve or ten down here.
I will look see.
we go to church on Sunday.
About one o'clock is when our meetings start.
this is of the mornings.
It is in the morning?
around nine or ten I think.
First Baptist in Sherman airs.
I think that is the one that it,
W ,
comes on before.
we'll look.
It is real cute.
You know what?
He is bouncing around,
his name is Jot,
he has got a friend named Cat.
I think the dog is the only one that is not dot .
it is real cute.
like I say, teach him stuff from the BIBLE.
I think it is just a real cute show.
I am trying to get my little boy into reading, like church books and things.
We have got like NOAH'S ARK and, LORD IS MY SHEP .
We have got about eight or twelve books for him, just little Bible stories.
they ,
getting to where he likes them.
We got him a little Jesus doll, about a year ago,
he has always kept that.
He likes it .
I really like,
now we get channel fifty five, although we do not have cable,
we do get channel fifty five.
that is a,
like, song,
they sing songs on there
they're, worship through music kind of things.
they are up to date,
some of them are videos
like music videos, that go along with the songs about church and Jesus.
it's a,
a Christian songs?
that sounds fun.
The Chri ,
it's called the Christian music station or something like that.
That's something.
I really like that.
I turn that Sunday mornings.
I do not,
my kids do not, have an ,
wow, I don't know what that was.
What was that?
I don't know .
to, the Brazos River
near Dinosaur Valley State Park.
we have not camped in any of those places,
in fact it has been a number of years since we have camped,
we used to go to Tyler State Park and, Daingerfield
in Texas that is where we camp basically.
What are they like?
They are very nice.
Tyler is really, really a neat place to camp.
It has a nice little lake
it has some really wonderful, sights that are in the wooded areas.
the facilities are quite nice
our children it quite well.
quite a bit younger than, *
we felt real safe with their being able to do what they would like to do there in the area.
a really nice place to camp.
Daingerfield is,
let's see,
I think that's a little bit east, further east, maybe south, if I am remembering where that is.
I think it's a little bit further north, when I think about it.
At any rate very nice as well.
Tyler, we sort of got spoiled with, I think.
we had lived in Michigan before we came here and, had done a lot of camping in Michigan,
I think the upper peninsula of Michigan, especially,
also, we had done some camping in Colorado, in the mountains,
my parents were real avid campers (( ))
my husband's parents were really avid campers as well.
I guess we just kind of came by it naturally .
Do you have a large tent
it was a nine by twelve.
how many does it sleep, comfortably?
there, supposedly,
they always say it sleeps more than it does.
Right .
it would have slept three adults anyway.
sort of early on especially as our children got a little bit bigger, we invested in some stacking, cots, that were like beds,
they were
That really gave us a lot more you did not have to be constantly getting things off the floor in order to walk around
gave us a place to stack things during the day
that was real nice.
my in laws also had a camper, or, a pop up tent, one of those trailer tops
those are really nice too.
A little more, luxurious, so to speak, but not much .
they have a kitchen in them?
It's really nice,
in fact, it even a little refrigerator, and the whole business.
It was quite nice in that respect.
everything was very convenient
you did not have be hauling things out of car,
Trunk of your car all time, right.
that was nice.
do you have plans any other camping trips in the near future?
back to Caddo, or,
Purdis Creek.
I like Bob Sandlin too,
it's a new park.
there is, not really camping,
what is it called, Cedar Hill.
Lake Joe Pool.
sometime, I like to go to Eisenhower up on Lake Texoma.
I have been in that area.
That is a really pretty state park.
we did not camp there,
we drove through it just one time when we were in that area
it's real lovely.
It's close to the lake and close to,
I think it's close to the dam up there
really quite pretty.
are you,
let's see what was,
I was going to ask you something else.
do you have a favorite among all those that you have been to?
those three,
from when I have been an adult, I like Caddo the best.
is it true that Caddo Lake is the only natural lake in the State of Texas?
that's right.
I have never been there
I would love to see what it looks like .
very deep.
they did build a dam on it,
it was there before they built the dam.
It has been there for a hundred years.
I see.
Apparently, an earth quake caused it.
How interesting.
I guess I never heard the history of that.
that might be some place where my husband and I can go.
We are talking about starting camping again in the fall.
our children are both grown
it's just pretty much the two of us who do things.
we thought we might take some weekend trips and maybe that would be a good place go to and see what it looks like.
it's really nice.
don't know,
the busiest time anywhere in Texas.
Is it?
I think so.
Especially with,
when the trees start blossoming out and everything it is really very pretty,
especially in East Texas, it's really nice.
have enjoyed talking with you.
It was nice talking to you.
have, some happy camping trips .
(( )) .
Hope you get to those places you have talked about.
you too.
bye bye.
right now we have one dog inside.
She goes out
she's an indoor dog.
And two outside cats.
(( Male and )) female.
how long have you had them?
The ma ,
the dog is probably thirteen, fourteen years old.
the cats as old.
I'm not sure .
Kind of lose track .
that's interesting because we have a simi ,
we don't have cats
we do have a dog,
who is an indoor dog,
she is going to be thirteen this summer
is that right?
Yes, huh.
What kind of dog do you have?
she's, a mix of Cocker Spaniel and Poodle.
that's what ours is .
Is that right?
Isn't that interesting ?
What color is your dog?
ours is black,
definitely different .
I'll be darned.
she's a female
good companion for me.
she's like a little shadow, kind of,
follows me around all the time,
she's slowing down considerably.
She doesn't hear very well
she doesn't see very well
that's to be expected at,
their age.
at this age, I guess so.
she's been a good dog to have,
I don't know,
once she's gone, I'm not sure if I'll get another animal or not .
everybody always says no more .
think animals are really important in the family.
I agree,
did you get yours as a pet for your chil ,
do you have children?
have five.
I was wondering if you got your dog originally as a pet for them or just because you'd had dogs before
dog before.
She was fifteen when she died.
My goodness.
this one, we bought by accident,
a farmer called us and wanted us to call and get this puppy that,
people drop things like that off,
(( up )) there,
I said, "Gee, she sounds like a cute little dog."
I told the kids, "Let's go look at her" .
Go get her.
that's how we got her,
Isn't that,
quite by accident.
that often happens that way.
we had, intentionally, planned to get a dog.
We had just moved into this house and, decided to wait about a year and then went,
then we went out then, and found one,
she was in the litter,
she was so cute because all the other little puppies in that litter were just crazy.
they were all over the place,
she was real docile and,
came over and just kind of sat next to us,
I thought,
that's the dog for me .
She picked us .
what was funny was that, our daughter must have been,
let's see,
she must (( have been )) about eight at the time, I guess,
she just loved this little dog,
to pieces
I think she loved her too much because the dog has never been real comfortable with her.
I think,
she was always a little bit leery of her.
Our son, on the other hand, who was about eleven at the time, was, not very interested in pets,
as it turned out, he and this dog have gotten to be really good pals.
for heaven's sake.
you just never know how that works out .
they say it's real important for children to have pets because, they can go and talk to them any time,
they want to and tell them anything they want to
nobody is going to, reprimand them or,
That's right.
know their secrets
they're very,
unjudgmental .
Yes .
dear .
the nursing homes now, they're finding that it's real important to take a pet into a nursing home.
reading and seeing about that on television.
nursing home in (( )) has one.
Permanent .
Is that right?
kind of has free run of the place, there is takes care of him.
Isn't that amazing?
he goes out (( )) people,
real nice dog,
It's funny how, how pets can kind of, take on a certain status in certain areas.
that made me think of, when our daughter was looking at colleges, we visited a campus in, Saint Louis
there were several dogs on the campus
what was interesting about it was that they were very friendly,
they didn't appear to belong to anyone.
I'm sure someone, fed them.
They were healthy,
looking dogs.
our guide that day said that , one woman many, many years ago had given a huge sum of money the university, on the condition that there be, dogs just kind of left to roam the campus.
Is that right?
Which is the strangest thing I had ever heard .
because most campuses don't allow pets,
I know.
they just do not allow them.
I know.
kind of great.
it really was.
It was just a nice touch,
it kind of made it seem more homey too .
th ,
I thought that was most unique.
it just, kind of goes along with what you were saying,
about the dog having sort of free run of nursing home.
this is the only pet we've had sin ,
in all our years of marriage,
it's been, sort of a, a change for my husband because as a boy growing up, his father had dogs
they were always hunting dogs,
they were never allowed in the house,
they were always kind of,
we've ruined them .
That's what he said.
They say (( )) ruined them .
(( )) .
having a pet was a little bit different for him.
we've had a lot of different pets.
rabbits for pets,
we also raised them for food,
at one time.
a skunk for a pet.
my golly.
For more years than I want to think about .
She was in the house .
Isn't that interesting?
I don't think I've ever talked to anyone who's actually had a skunk for a pet.
ever get one for a pet.
They're okay,
like she,
they don't ever learn their name.
could never call her and she would come to you,
you had to go chase her down.
I'll be darned.
How interesting.
their eyesight, they can't see very far either.
I guess I've heard that, huh.
we got her, everybody said, "Oh, they're just like a cat,"
they're not .
they use the litter box.
That's about it (( )) .
Isn't that interesting?
really something.
how long did you have that?
Probably seven or eight years.
Goodness sake.
finally, my children are the ones (( who )) said, "Mom, you've put up with that skunk long enough,"
we moved her to the basement,
I don't think she was there a week till the men her a pen outside .
my gosh.
Isn't that funny?
I thought, I put up with that all those years .
this is what it took finally .
That is,
(( stay )) in the house.
two Siamese cats.
Different times.
one of them ran off.
She ran off once,
he, I guess it was a male, he ran off twice,
the second time he never came back.
My goodness.
we would see him, several miles from our house,
he kind of moved into a woods down there.
I'll be.
he got huge down there.
My goodness.
He really grew
That's in ,
he never came back.
That's interesting.
wouldn't picture a Siamese as being an outdoor cat.
he wasn't a whole lot.
He was in the house most the time,
he did go out sometimes
they ma ,
it makes a much nicer cat if they're outside.
Is that right?
my son has a cat,
the vet had told us they get strange,
if they're kept in the house all the time.
their cat was not a friendly cat,
it was,
it was not a good,
I don't know,
it got,
it did get strange .
was right.
since they've moved to where let the cat out.
it has improved the personality.
like me
whether I night, not,
I think that we're paying too much taxes. including taxes in general or income tax,
the other thing was do we get what we pay for,
is our, what is our opinion on that
are you prepared to talk?
I guess so,
go by ear,
Let me push.
Let me push one here .
I can just tell you a little bit about taxes in Texas.
It's most interesting because we're one of the few, if,
I don't know of any other state, does not have state income tax
we don't have a state income tax,
we certainly make up for it in other ways here.
for instance, the local, sales tax is eight and a quarter percent.
Isn't that awful .
How about you?
What do you have there?
we have a six percent
sales tax.
you have state income tax also?
it's been,
people here this,
they've been really holding out in the legislature,
it's starting to show, in a lot of ways as far as things that are just totally under funded,
I don't know if Texas is ever going to be able totally avoid having an income tax or not.
I think eventually they're going to have to do it
Do you think you pay too much there,
how do you feel about that?
I don't mind my taxes as much as my social security.
the taxes,
I don't know,
I can deal with that because I know everyone else is paying in too, I guess
I don't know,
the one thing that,
we don't have, tax on clothes
do you?
we do have tax on clothes.
That's what I thought.
I know New York also has a sales tax on clothes
I know a lot of kids, going to college with me, that lived in New York or out of state, a lot of them would buy their clothes in Pennsylvania just for the simple sake of not paying that,
How interesting.
I guess I didn't realize that.
we don't have tax on groceries, for instance,
we don't have it necessarily on food,
then there's other things that they nail you for it
like health and beauty products
have, delineated,
yet, your absolutely right.
It's parts that, we don't have to pay
tax on.
you really have to watch bill.
Sometimes I think, it's real interesting to look to see how many things that I buy in a grocery store which are not really edible groceries .
that's when it really starts to add on,
is sort of a help,
I don't know,
it's just eight and a quarter just seems like an awfully lot tax on any sale, as far as I'm concerned,
that (( )) ,
It's real interesting, this last, tax season,
I'm a student,
the last tax season I had part time job helping out in a tax office.
the woman that owned the office was saying, she'd had this business for probably seventeen or eighteen years,
she was saying as the years have gone on, there are fewer and fewer things that people can, take off of their income tax.
Deduct, yeah.
if you're not a home owner, or if you haven't sold property, or, have something major like that, it's hardly,
it's just not much else you can do,
she said it's really taken the fun out of doing taxes for people for her, because she used to be real creative about helping them
find ways of,
accumulating receipts.
I take it she was an accountant.
Can't do, really
can't do it any more.
I know,
I also was a student,
I just graduated in May
I graduated with a finance degree,
that was the big joke, the accountants or the people who found ways to cheat on your income tax.
That was the big joke.
How interesting. gosh.
Where did you go to school?
Clarion University.
the same age as my daughter, because she just graduated from college this year too.
I'm a graduate student having gone back after many years.
nevertheless, I am a student, and poor .
I guess, as far as people like, our family, we can feel like sometimes we pay more than our share as middle class
college age
I don't know,
I guess as you say, you just have to look around and decide that most of the other people that you know are paying about what
you are,
I think they should go back,
realize, that we have, graduated tax brackets,
I think they should still go back
instead of putting the burden more on the middle class, I think the burden should be put more on the wealthy.
it seems like, they still come out okay
they always have the argument, who's to say we don't work harder to get that
I kind of have my doubts .
I don't care how much they take off of you,
you're still going to be above, on top,
you now
like you said, I've worked in different places,
the ones that get the most pay do the least work.
Seems that way, yeah, *
that the higher they get, the,
at least,
I don't know,
it seems like, they must feel like they're paid for all of the years of experience something, or just the title, sometimes
doesn't seem fair,
know a lot of people do make money, good investments and things like that,
I think that's a lot of luck and a lot of gambling, and whole lot of work .
I agree with you.
I do think it's a lot of luck,
I don't like that part of the finance,
I don't know,
like what I was saying about the social security, that's real,
it never bothered me until we started talking about it in my classes
the more I think about it, the more I think, I'm paying in to something that I,
granted, I'm paying for my grandparents
I'm never going to see that.
Probably not.
Social Security is going to be gone before I ever get any.
what's left is not going to be worth anything
in terms of how,
they're going to pay me
you can actually use it.
fifty dollars a month, right .
I'm sorry,
I put in much more than that,
That's right,
I haven't heard much in recent years, about social security,
for a while there, not too long ago, saying that the whole system was going to be bankrupt
before very long, because so much was going out for programs that originally it was never intended to be used for.
Or, you know, programs just weren't in existence
it sort of calmed down.
I haven't heard much lately,
if you have talked about that in your classes, in the last few years, I'm sure that you have heard,
I don't know,
I guess we complain about taxes,
I guess,
you have to be sort of,
you got to look to what they put,
you have to
you have decent roads at least .
appreciate, you do get for them sometimes
I guess worse,
I'd rather be able to control my money as much as I do with what's left over
taxes than to live in, England or, some countries where so much of it is socialized that you don't see any of that money at all
That's true.
I guess it's all relative,
it's how you look at it too.
That's exactly right.
I like to,
instead of thinking how much, that I'm paying out, I like to just look at it and say everyone else is doing it too,
That's right,
My name's Mary Dell,
I live in the Dallas, Texas area where there's a lot of pollution .
I'm up in Wisconsin
my name is Terry
in the small town we don't,
we're not that far from the city where there's tons of pollution.
I'll go ahead and start recording that,
just in particular here in the Twin Cities we have a lot of big corporations
I'm sure there's a lot of pollution.
before moving to Wisconsin lived across from where they were, gravel pits
and also where they were making tar,
we get the smell of tar
it would,
smell the continuous,
you knew that you were also breathing that into your lungs,
it was like miles away,
just the idea of having that come across the way it did in the wind
kind of made you know that there was a lot of pollution,
that was just one small corporation that was doing the pollution of that,
lived, too, it was very close to a highway,
got a lot of fumes from, trucks
and cars
you would literally see the pollution on your furniture,
it was
on your tables,
you would dust every day,
it was dirty, type of dust,
it wasn't the typical dust that you get way out in the country
I live in a small, town now quite a ways from the Twin Cities, about an hour away,
I may dust once a week,
that's all it needs versus every day when I lived in the city
I'd never thought about that being a cause,
I have to dust a lot as well.
comes right on through
through the screens,
the only way that you could actually live city is to close your windows and have an air cleaner system right in your home
that would take the air from the outside and clean the air before it would get into the house
My goodness.
it was quite a dirty city.
if you were well protected by trees, which catch a lot of the pollution
then you're fine,
most of the time in the city you have lots of high rises, you have lots of other things that are not catching the pollution
it's just going
for miles and miles and miles,
it's landing somewhere with the wind,
That's kind of the way Dallas is.
We're so flat and open,
I live in a suburb that doesn't have much vegetation, trees
it was all cotton fields,
we don't have that advantage,
ours I think is primarily cars, where we don't carpool like we should
an airport.
I work in a building,
I'm nineteen floors up
I look out toward D F W International,
there's just an awful brown haze all the time
I can imagine it's even worse for people living over near the airport.
our air quality, in the Twin Cities is a lot better than what we've heard about California and
maybe in the other areas,
they were always talking about the air quality of today is this, the ozone or whatever,
it's kind of scary because the air is something we take for granted
many people are too busy getting to work, not thinking about, Okay, I could have carpooled with a friend,
my husband was, talking to some of the guys at work,
he's, fifteen miles away from work,
he was talking, wouldn't it be nice to carpool,
the guy says, it's too close,
it wouldn't pay
Want to meet my own schedule
those are the arguments we hear,
my husband says, that's fine,
it would save quite a bit on the wear and tear on cars
and, the gas,
everybody has their preference to drive by themselves
if they do, drive with one little buddy,
at least it's with one person
most of the time people are saying forget it.
I don't want to carpool,
it's too much of a hassle,
it's too much involvement
paying for it.
we are,
I think of my daughter
I'm sure you think of your children,
you kind of say to yourself, what kind of future will they have when they think back and say, my parents did have the choice to kind of make a difference
maybe people are trying,
they have to change attitudes,
it seems to me that it's already so evident with our children having a lot more respiratory infections
than we had growing up
you can really see it.
had a chance to go to Bolivia a couple years ago,
of course there's no industry, very little trash,
they don't even have that much that they burn, because
they consume everything down
to the thread,
it amazed me,
just had totally forgotten how ...
the only work I do outside the home is I am an Avon representative.
I sell family products.
Do you,
don't really, I don't really dress up a whole lot.
Do you work outside?
I'm a C P A
I do contract work.
I work with another C P A who just started his own practice
I work with him a couple days a week
when I go to his office or to other clients' offices, then I'll dress up
otherwise it's great being at home
in jeans or shorts or whatever .
makes it pretty nice.
kind of weird because before I used to work, full time
it seemed like I was wearing a suit every day, just about.
you'd have to dress differently when you're working every day, I think.
some of my suits I haven't put on for quite a
It's kind of nice to relax a little bit.
It's, it's very nice.
dress up,
I live out in the country also
what I wear depends on the weather.
know a lot of the Avon representatives are portrayed as being very dressed up.
nice, but for convenience, because when the weather's bad, when I go into the home I take off my shoes
which I try to wear something easy to take off,
and put on.
I don't too often take off my coat even,
I really don't have to dress up like would, like if you're in an office or something.
I imagine that where you live, you're in warm clothing quite a bit of the year.
not actually because
Not really?
we really only have maybe three, four months of, I'd say warm weather.
is that right?
the rest gets into the cooler weather.
Course, they keep saying the weather's going to change and we're going to have more Florida type weather up here ,
don't know.
for now,
you all are waiting for that .
for now, we have a lot of ice and snow in the wintertime and, cold weather.
And that type of thing.
my daughter works all the time,
she dresses.
I think, you have to spend more money on your clothing, and that
because you do have to have to do a good job
where you work.
down here it's sunny most of the time.
And, usually warm.
we had a few cool days, this month,
not anything, I'm sure, compared to what you've had so far.
people are still wearing shorts
usually around Halloween it starts getting cooler,
you start
breaking out a coat
at that time,
lasts, for a few months .
Did you find you wore, slacks when you were working full time
did you
did they wear more dresses and skirts.
never wore slacks.
No slacks.
one of those things where, it's not like someone came out and said you can't wear them.
It was one of those understood things
that you just, wore, a dress
Not even even
if it's all,
with what I did.
Most people didn't.
Sometimes, the secretaries might
even then you didn't see them wearing slacks too much.
I really,
there's some nice pantsuits out
I wouldn't have wearing those
especially when it gets pretty cold.
I know my daughter mostly,
I don't think she ever wears slacks
to work.
I didn't know if the trend changes, if,
I think it's one of those things where it's not viewed upon as being professional.
I guess they
expect women to be in skirts
or dresses.
Look more like a woman, .
. That's right .
it's the men that make the rules .
then you know why they make them then ,
that way.
we usually,
blouse or suit or dress
is what you see down here.
it's nice with me working at home because I can wear pants.
one can see me
unless I'm, g ,
yet, you need to keep up an appearance for your husband, too, though
at home.
Because that's, believe,
I'm not going to put a skirt on just for him .
you don't think you will, ?
you'll be excused because considering everything .
I think that the main issue at home
is being comfortable
in your clothing .
look at homemaking as a job also.
being a homemaker
think sometimes we lose sight of that.
by the fact that we don't sometimes watch our dress,
What do you do there in Lubbock as far as, recycling is concerned?
you know they actually started
I assumed it was T I wide,
started putting out at least recycling bins for the paper
computer paper different types of paper.
I've had some ideas on how I think they could probably do it a little less expensively and accomplish the same purpose,
guess I need to put it on paper and turn it in .
Wha ,
what would be more efficient about it.
boxes located at certain areas throughout a module, or down the hall
a lot of people aren't going to get up, walk out of their offices and go there.
where I use to work we had what we called tree boxes.
That's just what we called them.
they were recycled cardboard.
They were eight and a half by eleven
you set it by your desk and as you got rid of a piece of paper you stuck it in there
when it filled up you called, facilities whoever to come pick it up
they brought you another box.
not only is it,
I think more people would take advantage of it and use it,
I think you save a lot of the cleaning service's time and effort and money that we are paying for them empty the trash cans and combine it and bundle it and things like that now when it could all be done in one step
kind of type thing.
I see.
I, was going to say cause I know I have right here a trash can for trash and a trash can for for paper on it
if if printed up something that I don't need it, just chunk it paper.
somebody still has to collect all that
That's true.
and bundle it together
whereas if you had a box that pretty soon it got full, you close the box, it's already bundled, it's already done for you.
Certainly that's a good idea.
you're saving a lot of time and effort.
I just need to put it on paper and
I guess recommended it to somebody and see if they thinks it's feasible .
what else do they do in the Dallas area?
as far as T I is concerned, I'm not sure.
I have heard, in residential situations.
I live in a dorm
I have heard in residential situations, like in Plano
that they are doing, stuff like having recycle picked up
where, I guess the sanitation department, as part of their responsibility picks up, the recycled items as well, the plastics and the paper , and aluminum
the only responsibility patron is to separate them
I guess the department takes them does what they do with them
it doesn't cost the patron anything.
Doesn't really cost the, department.
Anything extra.
for the recycled items.
That sounds good.
been wanting to put like two of three bins right out my garage door where, from the kitchen you know you can throw cans in one or the glass in the other
there are areas that can recycle tin cans, like your
vegetable things come in
not done that,
that's kind of what I want to set up Because we do go through aluminum cans,
That's probably the one we use most.
kind of services do you have there in Lubbock as far as,
where can you take your recycle items? *
lived in Abilene for a,
I went to school there at Abilene Christian
it was so hard to,
if you
Find a place.
you wanted to recycle you newspapers it was impossible.
do have facilities for recycling the newspapers, aluminum cans, those are the two major items.
we can take oil, like car oil, recycled oil to,
they have, dump areas at the fire departments
throughout town.
I don't know that they yet have the facilities here to do the tin cans.
I think they can do the plastics, like the liter bottles
things like that.
don't know.
I know for sure though they have the newspaper and the aluminum can and then the oil at the fire departments.
that's good.
I do that
I think people are becoming more aware.
the waste
like to see,
you drive through Burger King now and the bags are recycled paper
I feel like people are more aware of it or becoming more aware of it.
maybe it's making an impact .
Do you tend to buy more recycled items if the pack says recycled and something else doesn't?
would you tend to chose the one that does
I'm not as good about searching something out like that
if I am there and the choice is there
I would probably take the recycled product.
that's just where I probably need to be a little more responsible, citizen wise, looking or searching those out because you figure if we as the citizens do that then the manufactures and producers will start packaging it that way.
they are getting away from the styrofoam,
discussing air pollution today, I guess.
give me your first impressions.
I don't know,
there's a lot of air pollution.
I think industries and companies provide a lot of it
the oil burning over in Kuwait and stuff, that would have a lot of air pollution in it.
puts a whole,
gets a whole new picture to what real air pollution can be,
that stuff going on over there.
what part of Pennsylvania are you in?
I'm north of Pittsburgh,
amazing too, oil wells burning over there, that's the exact same stuff that's coming out of cars every day, a little different grade, I guess.
in Dallas, just, brought in a whole new set of requirements on inspections and things like that for cars, because, people just don't use mass transit and stuff in Dallas.
Everybody loves their car,
you see an awful lot of, one person vehicles on the road during rush hours.
That seems to be our biggest problem down here.
a lot of industry around,
any pollution that industry's dumping around here is not going into the air.
It's typically water type situation.
a steel mill and a couple refineries and stuff,
I know there's a lot of air pollution going in there,
get fined whenever they do the air pollution
the fine is nothing,
it's like nothing to them.
two hours of output or something like that.
That's true,
that's true.
I grew up in South Dakota,
to anything the, of the sort.
there were always E P A people what not were always telling us that, farm chemicals and what not were destroying our water system and all that
never saw the results.
dust in the air during planting seasons and what not,
was all we ever saw,
five years ago I moved to Dallas,
I suddenly started to understand what burning eyes, and all that stuff is about that I'd always heard about.
it gets, it's real depressing.
In the morning sometime you can tell if it's a good day or a bad day by, how far out from downtown, you can be on the road and still not see it.
my God .
it's not,
I don't think Dallas is considered, a real bad place for air pollution,
can tell, you can tell the differences in the days, the haze is kind of yellowish gray instead of just being foggy, misty color
a little, it's a little disappointing sometimes you start to realize what you're breathing.
I don't know what they can do to really prevent it,
what can they do about the oil burning over in Kuwait?
they fine the industries,
that doesn't seem to stop them there
I don't know what else they can do.
that there really isn't a whole lot.
things that if they do a little bit little bit does help,
I do believe that.
I also believe that the earth is a kind of a self regulating system,
it will clean itself up, eventually.
the whole idea is push the limit too hard, I guess
systems take care of the problem as much as possible.
I just don't understand, what else anyone can do about it.
I don't think it's something that people really think about, either.
it should probably be a big issue, because doing a lot of damage,
it's something,
I don't think many people really think about it, because it's nothing they,
I don't think we really have too much control over it.
it's one of those things,
so hard to measure the damage is
it's kind of like,
I guess it's cigarette smoking,
could go on for years and years until they start to see some results and people can say, Yeah, it's some damage
and something's got to be done.
a lot of things like that.
pound on something for a long time before it finally breaks,
until it breaks, you don't really know that you were doing anything to it.
I really don't know too much else about it.
that's, that's,
I think we both agree one of those deals that,
I just think there's a lot of other problems right now
we've done a lot to take care of it.
we have tried,
know a couple of the mills that have,
I know they put things on their stacks, to filter the smoke, and do all kinds of things,
every now and then it breaks,
you just have smoke going out into the air for a day or two, until you can get it fixed.
it's something have tried to help.
there's no doubt about it.
I don't know if you ever happened to see some of the Twenty Twenty and what not about Rumania and East Germany when they first got pictures out of there
about how some of their systems had been running for twenty and thirty years
they had absolutely no regulations, no controls whatsoever,
they had destroyed entire forests and what not, just because the air was so polluted.
the kind of things that, you don't see in this country,
why I think that, it's,
I don't know if you can ever do enough,
I think it's all relative time and place,
I think right now pretty much under control.
All righty.
It's been nice talking to you.
you bet.
bye bye.
Amy it's been, kind of overcast today and cloudy.
We have,
I have a son in kindergarten,
he was having a kite day,
I was really worried about it raining because there's been some dark clouds
pretty rainy
I've been trying to put weed spray on the lawn for the whole week
you can't put it on if it's suppose to rain within forty eight hours,
I keep hearing the forecast it's going to rain, it's going to rain, it's going to rain,
it really hasn't rained .
I know it just
I know.
has that,
it looks,
several times in the last couple of weeks it has looked rainy that day
and done anything.
we have a lot of trees in our yard
I probably,
they're pretty old, big tall trees,
if it's an overcast day then the weather is pretty blah .
Because I really have to catch some sunshine or else I feel like I live in a cave all the time,
I get tired with the ki ,
I have two preschoolers, a three year old and a two year old,
if it's not nice and they can't go out, it's really the pits .
I bet.
I appreciate it when they can at least go play in the backyard for an hour or something,
That makes a big difference
we're kind of new to Plano
I'm working on a carnival that's going to be in a couple of weeks for our school
I'm thinking that this has been pretty, rainy season,
it's been kind of scary,
it's kind of been cloudy every day,
I thought, I'm just not anxious to have worry about the weather.
my three and half year old, he really wants to have the pool out in the backyard ,
any day,
all Winter long he's been wanting a pool in the backyard.
I'm hoping, that,
it just seems like the weather around here goes so quickly from being Winter to, muggy, and hot,
it's just you never really have like nice cool sixty five or seventy degree weather with sunshine
I really miss that,
I'm from Chicago originally,
I miss the (( )) seasons we used to get up there that you just don't have down here.
I know in,
I'm from Missouri
we always had pretty nice four seasons
ex ,
we have some extreme weather in each season,
I like that
we moved here from Houston July
everyone kept saying, you're going up north it's not going to be so hot,
it's not going to be so humid,
Oh .
that has just not been the case.
has been,
It's pretty hot here during the Summer
it was extremely hot,
I thought I was going to die,
my car, I thought it was going die last Summer
Do have air conditioning in your car
the air conditioning was broke,
I guess it just couldn't handle,
the stress, and
I was worried about every time we came to an intersection
(( )) .
the car started idling rough,
of the extreme heat.
I know, my husband doesn't have air conditioning in his car and comes home from work, during the Summer
he feels like he's burning like he's been baking for an hour .
I know.
That's really awful,
I, understand that this is kind of typical for this time of year
that rainy season.
What I hate is,
I hate having to water so much around here
we never used to have to water our lawns
in Chicago it was always enough rain here and there
here if you don't water it just looks awful.
I just hate to spend the money just going down the drain and watering grass,
awful takes time
kids, they,
you have to water your lawn
they want to go out and run in it and get all muddy,
you're going do I want green lawn or a muddy feet ,
in the house.
we have a dog too
that adds to it
no .
traipse in and out with whatever the weather is like out there
I don't know,
the nice thing I'm looking forward to is, not having a hurricane season.
because Houston was really hurricane alley, wasn't it,
weren't there a lot of hurricanes there?
we always had, big concern about hurricanes,
they're close enough to the coast
you had to have a supply like, emergency supply on hand all the time
during the hurricane season,
it was pretty spooky .
that would be,
you always have to think, what's the weather doing,
Keep the weather radio close by and stuff like that?
do we have enough, food storage, and enough, batteries and
all the kinds of things.
every time I store batteries, I wind up going to use them and they're dead
they've been stored so long.
That's right.
now this is a little bit of relief, although they still have warnings all the time around here for, tornado season
hurricanes and stuff,
don't really like tornadoes either,
at least there isn't,
like I got rid of something,
not too much of that.
I've been worried about mostly with having little kids now with taking them out in the Summer and getting them burnt up,
I have to keep the sun screen on them just constantly when they go outside
because they say it's just so dangerous for little ones to get a bad sunburn
it is,
can't believe record temperatures that
were here last Summer that,
a hundred and ten degrees
it was just unbelievably hot.
I can't stand to be outside at all when it's like that,
I just don't even want to go out, of the house to get the mail even ,
leave me in the air conditioning.
That is pretty bad.
We had our air conditioning Summer.
The switch got something wrong with the switch
we had to call somebody out to fix it, because I couldn't take it more than a few hours without it on.
I know.
I can't imagine.
that would,
it is just pretty bad,
the weather hasn't changed too much from here to Houston
it is,
like you say coming a little bit further up north.
It's a little bit nicer to have a Spring and a Fall season,
where you have some pleasant weather everyday where you can feel like you just want to open your windows
that's really nice
I hate having to leave the house up all the time.
get some fresh air in the house
it feels good
I guess,
have you been here during the real heavy, heavy rains?
I can't remember what time of year,
I think it's usually this time of year when we get some, just torrential down pours.
Our neighbors had flooding,
so badly it was like a foot deep in their house last year.
They had to replace all their carpeting and everything,
it was miserable.
that sounds awful.
That would not be fun.
I have seen those.
I have driven around in the neighborhoods and seen those little flood gauges
that will be at little yellow signs,
it's, has it like from one foot to four foot
I thought I would never buy a house
with a flood gauge down the street.
no kidding.
Talk about asking for trouble,
that would be awful.
I've got some kids out on the trampoline I need to go look and see what they're doing.
have a good day.
you too.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
what is your latest experience with painting?
I don't,
I haven't done any painting since I was a child
my father would be painting and I'd ask him if I could, take a turn or something,
when we bought our home it was recently updated.
They did that, maybe improvements, so they could sell it and things,
we didn't have to do any painting.
the condominium we moved in before, my husband went over and painted,
the experience that I've had is that, whatever time he it would take me four hours,
because it was only about like eleven or twelve hundred square feet over there,
he said, it's going to be just about four hours.
he was gone the whole day,
he said, all I got done was the taping around .
Isn't that amazing?
looks so easy just slapping paint on.
I had an addition put on
because my inner room looked so dingy,
because I put these beautiful French doors in
I decided, okay, I'll just, have them paint this little room, a little ten by ten dining area.
It took four days.
even the painter couldn't give me a good estimate.
He said, I'll be done this afternoon,
pretty soon, before you know it, he's run into so many problems,
it's just,
there's nothing there to be a problem I thought,
it just took him so much longer,
he was there to paint the French doors also.
if you've ever painted French doors, which my husband just finally said he wasn't going to do ,
because it looked so formidable,
just ,
got this painter,
I just called him because I got a little ad out of (( adcose )) or whatever in the mail, and, just got this painter person over here.
he said, Yeah, I can finish it in a day.
the whole project basically took a week .
I know,
it's just awful.
I go what makes you a professional?
How much, more do you know than I know about this whole situation,
he just kept painting on those French doors,
each little,
paint stroke, the paint wasn't going on right is what it was.
he had to redo them like three times before I was happy with them, before he was happy, that they even looked halfway decent,
C and
so it's just been painting, yeah,
hire a professional,
that doesn't guarantee anything .
it really,
like you said, always takes way longer than anyone, is able to guess, because I know my husband painted, when he,
it was just the preparation time was so long.
That when he actually got down to the painting part, ,
it was like ten times longer than he already thought he would be done,
he did part of the, at night because we were trying to hurry up and get it ready so we could move in,
he didn't notice until the next morning that he had finished one can off and started another one.
we went in there, one was, bu ,
they were white,
one had more blue to it.
that can make a difference,
they bring the, little samples
you've got like maybe, five hundred,
that's an exaggeration,
there are just so many tints upon tints upon tints,
you don't know what you to want to,
put up there,
by the time it's on, I, I
selected what I thought was white,
it was like you said, it was blue
blue cast to it.
it looked awful on .
that was the next problem.
He had to redo that too.
I ,
This was a,
it was a major project getting the money together to do it too, by the end,
of the whole project,
we worked something out, because he was kind of apologetic that it took so long.
He really came over here to paint, I think, because he kept offering to paint the outside of my house ,
I don't think he did the interiors very well .
I don't recall my parents having that much trouble .
No .
they painted our rooms all the time,
we had wooden,
we hardly,
we just had brick on as accent
on a certain area of our home growing up,
he had to paint the outside all the time.
I just don't think, that there was that big problem .
It wasn't a big deal for them.
I don't know.
to us,
we're going, we're so glad we have a brick home, all we have is like trim around the windows or something,
I think my husband's really glad about that .
For sure.
no painting to have to do.
don't know that w ,
we're freshly graduated from school and things,
we haven't gotten to the point where we're hiring professionals to do too much of our needs.
get in there and do it yourself.
We've been trying,
we've done that the whole time we were in school. Like,
trying to repair our own cars,
C and,
so want to get to the point where I could feel like I could just hire someone .
not that easy.
It's like, it's,
I don't even know if would not even recommend this person again to anybody.
I don't know.
I guess you ge ,
don't know if you get into the mind set where you just say, I'll accept something, or you just really have to get on their back,
about things working with what they say are professional painters.
I tell you what, the fumes that paint gives off makes you wonder what these people do any ,
That's true.
the fumes are amazing,
don't think I could stay sane,
working with all that.
I know it's not lead based any more, paints,
my goodness .
it's harmful,
they have to live with that every day
I, think so .
their clothes and everything.
it does.
The only painting job that was really painless for us was in this condominium that the, association that manages it, they have to take care of like the structural damage.
there was a roof leak,
that was not something that we had to pay for.
they sent their painters in repaint a corner of the ceiling and then, repaint the whole ceiling,
in a certain room.
did it and left in just no time at all,
I think it's because were accustomed to working in that environment, in those particular condominiums,
watch them,
I couldn't imagine that they came in and painted it, the whole ceiling, just within a couple of hours.
Right .
maybe there are some professionals out there .
It makes you wonder .
it does,
for all that.
I hope you have a nice day today.
you too,
you take care.
I guess it's to be lunch time,
I need to go take care of the kids
You have a good day.
Bye, Kay.
a lot of women are about football as I am.
Can I guess your favorite team, if you had one, might be the Steelers.
I can understand that.
kind of like the Cowboys, too.
Do you?
They've had some great games in the past.
always enjoy watching Dallas and Pittsburgh together.
me too.
It wasn't nearly as much fun when Bradshaw was playing for you guys, I'll tell you.
He lives in the Dallas area now, as a matter of fact.
Does he really?
it's probably closer to Fort Worth,
in the same area.
He a big horse farm out in a little town called Roanoke, Texas.
he pops up on the Dallas scene quite often.
As a matter of fact, there was some talk about trying to get him involved with the team management in some sort of a coaching job.
wo ,
I wonder if he'd ever do that.
I don't know,
he'd be good at it.
He's such a motivator,
primarily, with the quarterbacks.
That would be his specialty.
they could work something,
I really like him.
I really do.
what about the Houston Oilers.
Do you like them?
I'd love to see Dallas and Houston play in a Super Bowl.
That would be really great.
That may not ever happen,
I don't know.
Houston has had some wonderful talent, down through the years
in the earlier years they really had some super teams.
Warren Moon,
That's right.
proving himself quite well right now.
He certainly is,
he's very good.
He's very good.
He's one of the few, Black quarterbacks that there are.
That's right.
Randall Cunningham was with Philadelphia, I guess last year,
he's no longer with the team.
you're right,
there are very few Black quarterbacks, or at least that are starting anyway.
How do you think the Steelers are going to do this year.
You have any idea.
I don't know,
I hope do better.
during the past couple of years they've been doing a little bit better.
still such young team I think they still have a little bit to go before they reach the potential,
that it did when ever Bradshaw was playing.
that was just such super team.
if they even reach that potential again, they may never reach that again.
that's a tough,
it would be tough to do,
it really would.
They have such a super team for years, that won what, four Super Bowls?
four in a row.
Four in a row.
I don't know if that could ever be duplicated again or not.
I don't know.
Shooting for one for the thumb now is what they were saying.
That's right .
basically everyone that was on the team then is gone now,
That's right.
I think Mike Webster was left
then just left.
He may have been the last of the old guard,
I don't know.
I think he is,
I think he was.
they had such a super team.
Have you been following the big draft that occurred yesterday?
I didn't.
I see.
There's quite a bit of activity now,
of course they had so many, nice, choices because their record was so lousy the last few years.
They picked up,
quite a few of the,
of course you never know.
The guys they pick, never play a game.
You never know,
a gamble,
it really is.
They may get hurt, or, not be able to participate at that level, if
who would you say is your favorite player, or has ever been your favorite player?
Ever been?
Probably an old guy that played, probably before you were born ,
his name was Sam Huff.
He used to play for the New York Giants.
That was one of the toughest guys that I've ever seen in my life,
as far as, dedication.
He just went all out every single play.
Of course, there have been some other great ones too, Dick Butkis, and Bradshaw,
there's been so many.
ye ,
if I had to pick one, I would probably pick Sam Huff, as a matter of fact.
that's really funny,
come from a large family
quite a few boys
that's kind of how I got in with the football.
watch that watch nothing.
That's right.
at one time I could name all the players on the Steelers,
even when Bradshaw was playing, don't know, didn't particularly care for him,
I thought he was kind of cocky or something.
He is,
he is,
of course a quarterback has a big ego.
have to have,
they can't survive.
They always think they can win, which is the way it should be.
Boy, he never gave up, I'll tell you.
him and Franco Harris,
I really didn't care for the either two of them.
they were good,
I, you couldn't deny that.
I just didn't really care for either one of them.
today, my favorites out of those guys were probably, Lambert,
and, Stallworth and Swan.
I can't disagree with that.
They were super players,
they really were.
They really,
I like, I like watching on Saturday afternoons when they'll have best plays from,
from the week or something.
highlights, yeah.
I love watching that.
Then I like watching their bloopers too, .
that's kind of funny too, as a matter of fact .
Some of them bit embarrassing.
they make mistakes too, I guess.
Absol ,
it's funny that more people don't get hurt.
especially, I would say the receivers,
oh they,
when they're in the air and they get tackled.
They take such a beating.
it's funny some of their necks don't get broken.
I don't know how they do it.
must just take a hundred percent concentration, I guess, because they know they're going to get hit,
it's just a matter of how hard, or where.
An they have to be in ideal physical shape, basically.
They look like sometimes they're just broken in two like a match stem.
Gosh, what a beating,
they really do take a beating,
they really do.
what did you think of, a couple years ago for the Bears, the Refrigerator.
I think he was just probably a passing phenomena, I think .
I don't know,
knowing what,
of course, Mike Ditka was in Dallas for years and years as coach, knowing of his temperament, I'm just surprised he ever, kept the guy around,
I really am.
about a half hot head anyway, such a temper.
to me just so big and fat,
he doesn't even look like he's in shape.
He's just so big, no one can move him.
That's right, yeah,
There's just so much mass there, I guess they just can't,
I don't know,
physically strong.
obviously not very fast.
I guess it's just, like you say, a mass that nobody can seem get out of the way.
As far as him scoring touch downs, I think that was kind of weird.
I don't know,
Dallas has a guy, his name is Nate Newton,
he has a real weight problem too.
He fights it every single year,
he manages to still keep playing,
he has a terrible weight problem.
They wa ,
the coaches watch him all year long.
weigh him several times a year just to make sure he's not, completely out of control.
I guess most every team like that,
I don't,
are some really big guys playing in football.
Absolutely they get bigger and bigger, it seems every year.
I guess you have to stay in the game I guess.
you would, huh.
would you say that you have a fav ,
other than Dallas, would you say that you have, a favorite quarterback.
the quarterback's seem to get most of attention,
say, someone like Montana, I guess, who's done so well for so many years.
I enjoy watching him play.
his age is about to catch up with him though.
He's no Spring chicken anymore.
he's still performing.
like you say Warren Moon's an excellent,
Warren Moon's an excellent.
he's very exciting to watch.
Yes he is,
I enjoy watching him also.
What about, Marino?
obviously he's a very good quarterback,
never was, a big fan,
I think he'll get better as he gets older.
he may, huh.
Because he was the youngest quarterback there was, wasn't he?
he was,
I believe that's right at one point in time.
Ye ,
he's a very young fellow.
of course a quarterback can look so good a good supporting cast,
That's true,
that's true.
If not, he gets beat to death like poor old Troy Aikman has the last couple of years anyway,
you kno ,
we ,
Dallas did better last year,
hopefully they'll do better this year.
. probably around twelve, huh.
just think, Marino will get better
his team's not as good as what it was when he went to the Super Bowl,
That's right.
Miami's had some down years, too.
they all do, I guess,
cyclical, I guess.
As the players get older, get slower.
. That's true,
ye ,
with age comes,
I'm sure arthritis sets in with them,
yes, very much so.
Hip injuries and things like that, yeah.
forces a lot of the guys to get out of the game.
they're so young,
That's right.
they're retired,
their so young still.
I read not too long ago that the average, professional career only lasts seven years.
really not a very long time, of course.
then you think about how many have been in there longer than that.
if the average is seven years that means a lot of guys don't make it seven years,
a lot of them would have to get out in just a couple.
That's right, yeah, *
that's ri ,
Holy smokes, that doesn't seem like very long.
a pretty short career on average.
Of course they play their, cards right and do some good investments, do all right.
a lot of them don't, unfortunately.
what do you think of the, L A Raiders,
used to Oakland?
always branded, as a bunch of outlaws
arrest record them play anywhere else, the Raiders.
that just may be, perceived,
I don't know.
Al Davis a kind of strange character, looking guy.
Apparently he's kind of a wild guy,
I don't really know for sure.
They've had some excellent teams, though, obviously.
they have.
I'm not sure they've yet decided where they want to play,
they keeping talk about, going,
I'm not exactly sure
wasn't really, paying attention as to what particular, parts of capital punishment we're supposed to talk about,
it was, basically what's your views on, whether you thought there was certain cases that should be used, that sort of thing?
I don't know,
always thought that any, crime intentionally where someone goes out and premeditatively takes another life would be the ones where I think that capital punishment would be necessary to keep that person from perhaps, doing it again, and even more so to get people on the outside who are professionals to realize that, there's very steep penalty to, be paid
when that's done,
how do you feel about it?
I believe in it, too .
I'm Catholic
we're not supposed to,
I feel that it,
like you,
on the premeditated murders I feel it's beyond a doubt that you did it,
I would say go ahead and execute that person as well.
it's the cases, like sometimes you, you hear of people that they say they went to jail falsely,
they really didn't do it.
got, you got that point well, if a mistake is made and you put someone, to death that really didn't do it.
There's always that chance,
I don't know,
I would say that, for that many people to all of them agree that you did it and it was premeditated, it would be kind of hard for,
You know what I'm saying?
the (( )) evidence wasn't overwhelming, right?
I think that should be likewise decided by the jury, because, I don't know, I think a jury would be less likely to just send a man to death just for, any reason,
I don't know a judge might be a little more cold blooded about it.
I'm not sure about Pennsylvania, whether we have it or not.
For some reason I was thinking that we do,
not very often.
I think maybe last year was the first time in like eighteen years or something like that, that anyone
I don't think we,
anyone from Pennsylvania had gotten it.
I don't,
do you know if Virginia has it?
we don't.
I know Florida has it.
they're always (( )) in Florida.
Florida and Louisiana, I think, and, some of the,
other southern states.
Course they have such a crime problem because they have such a rate.
Get that unemployment way up
then people, tend towards crime,
start stiffening the penalties.
it's funny that,
I said I think last year was the first time in like eighteen years for Pennsylvania.
I'm not even sure of that,
for some reason I think that, it was something like that.
it surprised,
even Florida, I know they have it,
you don't really hear about it real often, how many people,
in Florida seems like, two or three times a year.
It's constantly on the,
think that,
if you think of how many premeditated murders are committed,
compared to that and to how many people are being sent, that doesn't seem like very many.
that's true.
Course they have a requirement every single appeal must be permitted.
of course, attorneys,
Everyone would appeal.
take them through the whole chain.
That's true, too.
even if the case is open and closed,
they go all the way up to the Supreme Court,
They almost always get thrown right back out again,
they have to have every single appeal made open to them.
it's sort of strange because seems like the attorneys are doing it for the money or something because, the guy knows that, whether it's, month or two, or six years, he's still going to get, the chair when it comes around .
Some of these guys are really, violent Son of Sam killers and stuff like that,
they get out.
everyone knows they're to get out.
they get out in three years on probation,
they do it again,
It's like a slap on the fingers for them.
I don't,
I think that it should be,
if it's beyond a doubt that someone did premeditate a murder, then I think, that someone should take their life also.
you, would you draw the line there with just the premeditated murder?
I think so.
a lot of the other violent crimes I don't really feel that strongly about.
Although, stiffer sentences and lessening the effects of parole,
these guys are certainly not going to, be,
they can't,
they're getting into drugs and fights and all that stuff in prison.
I don't think the parole system is really helping that much .
Reduce the violence in the prisons.
I think that's its only purpose
to reduce, the violence in the prisons so people behave themselves a little bit better if they think they're going to get off early.
Off earlier.
some of these guys just don't care,
D you know.
I think some of them would rather be in jail .
They probably have it better in jail than what they would out in the streets.
that's possible I guess.
I don't know,
I was just going to say something,
I forgot what it was.
I don't even remember what it was now.
where do you live in Pennsylvania?
In Clarion.
I live in Butler,
I'm at Clarion University.
I don't think I really know that.
that all depends, too, on where you are at.
That's, sort of interesting to get opinions as to where different parts of the country are. Because the more grass root tend support capital punishment, where the places that are, less in contact with crime
urban, less,
in kind, I'm in kind,
we only have seven thousand students in the entire campus.
that would be pushing it.
this is definitely a college town.
we're about two hours north of Pittsburgh if that would help you out any.
Two hours where?
North of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Near Polk?
I've never heard of Polk
Polk Institute.
It's, an old, university that turned into a place for the mentally retarded.
I never heard of that.
Very old, historical place there.
It might have a new name.
Sharon, Pennsylvania's up there.
We're probably about an hour away from Sharon.
most of the kids here, I,
just from dorm mates and stuff, they'll say that they don't believe in it,
then after I would say my point of view, then they'll say, yeah,
da ,
In that case, maybe,
I think people can be persuaded one way or another.
I've never seriously ran into someone, other than my priest, who definitely says anyone's life.
anyone that is so against it that you couldn't persuade them in any instance.
That's true.
you get certain circumstances where you hear about these people that have, stolen kids and,
done terrible things to them and killed them and, that sort of thing,
you just
I don't want that person sharing the Earth with me,
that is just
Exac ,
we had a case like that here
on the other hand, people are saying that because the criminals know that the, penalties can be very severe,
there's less criminals that are, turning themselves in, or, pleading whatever, because they know that the judge, if they find them guilty opportunity to sentence them, the death sentence.
I look at that and say, they should have thought about that beforehand.
I'm just saying that's what, client, lawyers are saying.
They're saying that, more of my clients would have pleaded guilty if they would have gotten a light sentence instead of possibly having to get a death sentence because you can't plea bargain
what the sentence is going to be.
You can plea bargain what you're guilty of, but,
But not how they're going to (( sentence you )) ,
That's something, ,
they plea bargain or not, if they're guilty of murder, they're guilty of murder,
I don't think that they deserve anything less .
It's just,
I just ,
I was just saying that way,
what they're saying is that they can't get people to turn themselves in then.
we have to go through a trial then to prove the person's guilty.
that costs money, yeah.
perhaps we can
perhaps we can't
the guy might get off.
although usually the guys that are turning themselves in guys that are, going to get caught anyways
There's always a few of those people that lost their head or whatever.
we just had a terrible case in Virginia where some girl disappeared
the guy, like I said, he just, said that he took her,
he won't admit that she died or whatever,
he won't say where the body is because he knows the penalty's mandatory life sentences for murder.
how do we fix the national budget?
Damned if I know.
I don't know,
I suspect,
let's see,
I suspect we should do what everyone says we should do,
we should cut spending and maybe even raise taxes
Lord knows one shouldn't say that.
I suspect we should probably have an independent auditing agency go in and look at how the government spends money. And work from there.
That would probably be good,
don't think they're very good at it.
something that the government hasn't been looking at is the source of the problem.
The true source of the problem is, that we do spend too much,
also, that we don't take in enough.
wh , why do you say that actually?
too few Americans are working.
If more Americans were working and meaningful good paying labor,
and paying taxes,
Rather than using taxes.
and the tax structure was fair between the lowest and the highest income Americans, then we would have more money there to play with.
that's interesting.
that's probably true,
be spending less because all the money normally goes to support those people aren't working, it's back in the system.
you're right.
That's a real neat idea.
what can,
some point, what can you do jobs I wonder.
I hesitate to say we ought to spend ourselves to (( affluence ))
in fact, in some cases that's what we ought to do.
start (( )) .
Not Reaganomics, thank you.
that's not going to work,
what I was thinking more along the lines of is start going to space.
that way just create more jobs or whatever?
at some point will be enough jobs for most of the Americans.
, that's a neat idea.
We also need to, assure that there's some work in the private sector.
think space would do that much for that
I think it would do something for it.
I think we would fill up new technologies.
I think we should also do something rather radical.
Like what?
Legalize marijuana.
that would, have a major effect?
(( that would )) put a lot of criminals out of business for a while anyway.
might have good effect on crime anyway.
I think it would take some of that money out of the hands of criminals.
I think it would reduce the amount of carry on drug use where people advance from one drug to another.
That's probably true.
most importantly it would give the federal government something new that they could tax.
probably a lot of.
probably a lot of
really receive some revenues from.
(( that's potentially )) ,
if you look at prohibition historically, it's repeal helped the federal government a lot in tax revenues.
I had never thought about that.
Then I think once we put money back of the federal government,
and get the federal government to where there's money there again, we should reduce the amount of money,
this would have to come rather quickly, and would have to come originally also where we're not paying,
in some cases we do pay more, for welfare recipients to live then they can earn in the true minimum wage environment.
That's true often times they are paid more, yeah.
you can't deny people the right to supply their families better through whatever means.
That's just sensible on their part.
That's just what on their part,
I'm sorry,
I missed that.
It's just sensible on their parts,
to go after the greater amount of income.
if you lower the amount they make and raise the amount of true minimum wage jobs, not those that are affected by the federal minimum wage, then more people will get off welfare.
maybe true.
That's very true.
give them a true incentive to want to work.
don't start letting more outsiders in for a few years until we figure out exactly where we're at with unemployment.
that's a,
Reduce immigration,
or eliminate it entirely for a few years, until we get our own house in order.
the same lines, maybe reduce imports as well, I think.
(( )) . We don't need to buy other people's stuff right now (( )) . *
That's right,
when we're in a world of hurt, going to say that we ought to them through legal means.
I think we ought to just tax them severely.
what happened in other country though.
other places they tax us quite ha ,
they tax American imports quite heavily.
we could do the same thing,
they may get,
It seems only fair.
it does seem only fair,
why not.
I think really if we got all those that are able bodied into the work force reduced the amount going out for those purposes, created new jobs for that work force, there would be plenty of money.
I think so.
at that point,
quit spending on space.
(( real )) ,
Force it all private sector.
I love the switch.
at that point it wouldn't be a problem anymore possibly,
we would be,
That's right.
we would be able to keep it wherever we wanted to in space or the ocean research whatever we wanted to do,
I think the,
space was just a convenient place for me to go because that would put a lot of,
a lot of
(( Millspec )) and NASA work operates to the same demanding specifications,
that would put a bunch of defense workers back to work.
compared to defense.
that's a good idea.
I think we seriously need to do is, like I say, have someone go in and look find out where it is we're paying ten thousand dollars per toilet seat or something.
You know what causes that?
greed, I suspect.
buying large (( )) ,
the government specifications,
sheets of paper for building a pair of B V D underwear for the federal government,
is twenty two foot tall.
If it was all on nine by elevens stacked one on top of another.
For making, you mean, government issue underwear?
For making government issue underwear.
To just understand those legal requirements and operate within the government guidelines,
costs the company a huge amount of money.
that's potentially a fault of the government then, that things like that should,
a huge amount of it is not the fault of the contractor.
that's a,
I had never heard that before.
a huge amount of what you hear about the seventy five dollar hammers,
and the nine hundred dollar toilet seats doesn't come from people in the industry,
it comes from senators that don't know anything about it.
my job is government tooling specialist.
you know about some of these things.
what kind of crafts and hobbies do you have?
not very many of those at,
sometimes play the trumpet,
sometimes I work on trumpet mouthpieces.
I have a five year old daughter
we cut out things, and color use markers and things like that.
how about you?
I used to be more into crafts, when I was younger, like high school stuff.
I was in four H
I did a lot of latch hook
made rugs and stuff.
I've learned how to crochet,
I don't really know,
I don't do it that much.
Not really an indoor hobby type person unless the weather's really bad.
I'd rather be outside.
I used to play trombone .
I don't know if that was a,
not really,
I don't play it that much any more,
what else do I do.
Mainly do reading.
I don't have a lot of crafty type things I do.
what are some other things you enjoy?
I don't know.
father is antique business.
goes around to garage sales
he buys all kinds of, china and figurines and statues and stuff.
there's some stuff that's really for, auto repair.
It's called J B Weld
I repaired gasoline tank with it once.
mixes colors in it.
It's an epoxy resin that you mix together.
he makes like,
the other day he was working on a hand that was shattered on statue that's real small,
it's about maybe
the hand's about the size of a cricket.
And, has, the forefinger sticking out and the thumb sticking out,
he was repairing that,
it came out pretty good.
It's a ivory color all over and
and, has some age spots in it,
it looked, just like had been there all the time.
he bowls that have the cracks or chips in them, and, molds that in.
He had a bowl a few weeks ago that fixed that way.
It worked out real well, too.
Do you ever,
he thatches, those, thatched chairs.
Course that's like hooking that you were talking about.
That takes a lot of time.
That's great that he has a lot of hobbies and stuff.
he used to paint, a long time ago,
I think he's stopped pretty much now.
Oh .
art class school, stopped doing most of that, unless he has a computer,
I use, the graphics
software on that, do figures and to look at things, see how they work.
That sounds interesting.
he ever, refinish furniture or anything like that?
it's not one of my favorite things, especially from the vapors,
we had, an entertainment center we did last year.
we bought it at an, unfinished, furniture place
and sanded it down and, stained it and then lacquered over it .
Pretty time consuming, isn't it?
nice to have it when you're done,
looks pretty.
sure is.
I've done that once
it didn't come out that well.
Zar stain?
I don't remember.
It was,
I had my parents buy everything,
I ended up,
it was
It came out really dark.
they had a,
I saw the commercial on T V,
the people at the unfinished store recommended it,
that's called,
it's Z,
A R .
it spreads real evenly
it doesn't dry too fast,
if you get too much in one spot you can smooth it out.
put, we put tung oil on it.
Kind of made it sticky for a while.
after it dried out, real hard,
it was all right.
I remember it took me a long time,
it took me like to do it during the summer,
after I got it done it was pretty dark, and ended up not being real smooth looking.
Since I've moved away they've had it redone.
I gave that hobby up real quick.
I don't know.
Like I said, I like doing a lot of outdoor stuff,
during Four H, they really encouraged to do all kinds of crafty stuff, which is
I like that .
. the Girl Scouts, too
when I was real young I was for a couple,
of years .
Excuse me.
it was nice talking to you Dudley.
it was nice talking to you.
Have a good day now.
you too.
Bye .
Bye bye.
what do you read?
I read everything, I guess,
wh ,
What is your favorite?
I like all kinds,
in fact I was just reading, a magazine now. An automobile magazine.
I like historical, books, TIME magazine, newspaper, to do it type things,
I am not much into magazines.
I do read them.
I like GOOD HOUSEKEEPING and stuff like that.
I will get
ideas out for my own house and yard and stuff .
Main thing, I like Pierce Anthony.
I love Pierce Anthony novels.
the novels, yeah.
I am not into and all that stuff.
I am, not into novels at all really, than historical things.
I am kind of chore person.
I like to do,
a fix it person.
would read all those kinds of things.
(( Figures )) . What, like those, magazines you get through the mail?
I will buy car magazines,
course I am an engineer
I read the engineering magazines,
and the money magazines.
I am reading now about Russia during the czar's time and what it was like and everything.
What about like those TIME books that they put out about, ancient discoveries?
th ,
how they found out that, ancient man, brain surgery successfully?
stuff like
mean the ancient astronauts things?
I have read some of that.
did not,
some of that is,
is very interesting, without question.
do not really know that they have the answers in those books.
make conclusions in them that may or
may not be true.
they are very interesting.
they have,
what they have discovered.
I like far out facts or whatever.
I like to read stuff like that.
I am a superficial buff.
I cannot (( take a day )) I just,
You are what kind of buff?
it if it is fun.
I do not get too into it.
I am kind of a hobbyist
read all those things that,
being an engineer, all those books that would bore everybody else, how to do things.
I am one of those crazy people that reads the directions.
It always make my wife mad.
Because you read it .
when she ever there is something, I say, have you read the directions?
I hate reading the directions."
I say, engineers, are the few people in the world
You are an
that read
the directions. Yeah *
Are you an engineer for T I?
I worked at T I for a little while.
we have got a book that says, HOW DO THEY DO THAT?
it answers everything.
. I,
not everything
a lot of silly little questions.
Like what makes a firefly light,
Those are, interesting.
you like science things?
I have not gotten them in a long time.
What is that, one that is on T V?
That book, NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC is really a fascinating book,
if you ever get those
e ,
that, do not,
I have not gotten them in years,
were kind of expensive.
I know people just collect them like they are,
They have wonderful and just amazing photographs that
they have done.
We used,
my little sister was blind and going to school,
she would have to come home at night, cut out different,
she was not fully blind, just legally blind.
she would have to cut out different colors,
that is the best book to go through, those NATIONAL
It is.
It is.
the photographers just got
they are great.
fantastic pictures in those things.
I do like NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC and stuff. Because like reading about, I don't know, animals.
I love reading about animals.
The gorillas and stuff.
the sloth, it fascinates me.
That's something moves that slow .
it is just weird.
I have not,
of course, was it all books and things
was it any,
did it say anything about newspapers?
I have forgotten what the question was exactly.
what do you read, I guess, in general?
we can talk about anything we want.
glance at all newspapers.
I do like,
since the re , since the economy is doing so bad, I never have read the, financial pages more often than now, And trying to analyze and look for some good news in, in there,
for me
to see if the,
there is no imme ,
wh ,
the financial pages does not hit me directly. Which I am sure it does if I get into it.
like I said, I do not keep up on all that.
I have only been more interested because of things are doing so bad and everything.
I thought
see if there is anything in there that, would be positive,
You always look for things with,
with this terrible recession that we are in,
With everything
to see if there is any go ,
going down?
It is,
hopefully, we will recover here,
I know I heard Bush say that, we are bottoming out seem to be.
that is Bush saying that .
I know,
I do not really know if, any one person knows,
what some of the problems are.
are some, there are some interesting things in the paper,
I like Ann Landers .
I like getting the paper and reading the want ads
I do skim over it.
mainly I am a front page person.
I do not go into the details.
I glance at it.
the, so much, F
you sound like you have a family too.
with a family and everything, there is just so much going on that am more of a r ,
not more of a radio buff
it is easier to do when I do some chores,
or yard work or anything, put the radio on and listen to that.
I know at T I they have most of the stuff on the printout, don't they? on the computer where you can read the daily
I do,
every time I come in, I will punch up,
they call it T News and all that.
do get,
it gets a little bit of everything.
Even last page, sport, listings different things. and world news,
When I wor ,
you can read it in one minute,
When I worked at T I, I read that more than I read the regular newspaper.
Because I would read that every day because you would find ten minutes here that you do not have anything to do.
I know you do, being an engineer.
There are some times when you have got ten or fifteen or even an hour off .
Not much,
not in the area I worked in .
We had an engineer in there every ten minutes.
it is, interesting, with the computer to read the computer news and,
all that.
guess that is a source of reading.
I hadn't thought about that in that respect,
it just encouraged me to read it.
does have a good, simple,
again you can read it a lot less than ten minutes.
It is usually,
page through it in,
I do not read everything on,
some of the stuff is pretty boring.
skip over some of that.
it is,
that is me with the newspaper.
Especially financial page.
I do not,
I read it so less
I watch so little T V, I did not even know what the deal was with this,
I cannot remember his name now.
Him and his wife are getting divorced,
he is tycoon or something.
What is his name?
Donald Trump.
what the whole deal was with that.
I guess because he was so rich,
When you are that rich, you always get into the paper, whatever, if you have a family problem, whatever.
Oh .
he had a young girlfriend.
is well into his forties,
I guess he got a young girlfriend who,
time you take,
are that rich, you just get, the news
which is tough.
that is all it was?
He was just having an affair on his wife?
his business is going down the tubes so bad,
He was, essentially like you said, a tycoon.
Donald Trump had it all.
He was high roller for about ten years,
he is now, essentially bankrupt,
h ,
That has got to be hard to go from really rich
to poor.
Which I am sure he ain't poor.
who knows,
what he has really got.
he was kind of an guy,
I think the newsmen, enjoyed, writing about him on his way down,
his wife seemed to be very smart. And actually running some of his business.
actually somewhat of a business partner of his, did very well.
Ivana Trump,
they have been on all the news and everything. papers and, on Barbara Walters and everything else.
that is like I said. do not watch much T V any more either.
I have got three kids .
I can imagine.
it is hard to watch T V.
Except for Donald Duck.
I know what you mean, really.
I have enjoyed talking to you.
hang in there.
good luck with those kids.
have a good holiday.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
Basically, my husband and myself use the credit cards in regards to major purchases.
We really don't get into small little purchases.
If we're going to purchase something quite large we might put it on a credit card,
other than that it's not something that we use a lot of.
we may have only two or three versus, I know a lot of people have up to a half a dozen or, up to a dozen credit cards,
ours are just major credit cards that we have and, only we feel it's necessary to make a big purchase.
is that like Visa and
and Mastercard.
Do you have department store credit cards too,
one Sears.
Sears is pretty major with us simply because we do,
Appliances and things like that
they're real good with their appliance and stuff like that
we try to avoid them with a passion because of the percent of interest rate.
If you've got the cash to pay for something, it's better to do it that way than versus credit cards, unless it's a small enough sum that you can do it within a two, three month period,
if it's, any large purchases, you've got to kind of think about, how much you're going to put down as far as, payments on it so that you're not getting eighteen percent or
Right .
twenty percent interest taken off,
husband and I do basically the same thing,
end up sneaking a few in there that surprise us.
We still pay it off every month
if it kills us .
we do it mainly for, the cash flow,
what is that, float.
That's the word, float.
I often will keep of what I've charged and sometimes deduct it from my checkbook
you know.
sometimes just,
keep a list and make sure I
I don't go over a certain limit.
Especially around birthdays,
Exactly .
If we go out to a restaurant, just to float it,
I don't know.
if it's a business transaction
a lot of times that's important, too
my husband has
to keep a better receipt of it.
anytime like a plane ticket, or, ,
Even if we have the,
I'm sure we'd have the cash before we got it,
the float
for more than a hundred dollars seems real nice for that.
For the month or whatever.
That thirty days
or whatever.
We have a new one from A T AND T
we used that one too much .
Be interesting,
that's nice, because you can use it for a calling card also.
It's a Mastercard, too,
It's kind of fun,
you get a lot of junk mail about them.
you always get these preapproved, credit card things coming through,
your credit is great,
let's send you another credit card
you're such a
it's preapproved for,
a wonderful person .
to entice you to get more credit cards.
We'll give you five thousand dollars
up front .
we always laugh about that because it's quite a bit .
you always constantly getting those preapproved stuff,
Do you have, an annual fee on yours
do you get yours through a bank
ours is through a bank, yeah. *
We had it a long time ago through a bank
it just a
can't see paying an annual fee for it.
I almost ,
you're already paying them, don't pay it off within that month, interest, anyway,
that's exactly it
it sounds like I'm being paged otherwise.
All right,
thanks a lot.
Good talking to you.
Bye now.
Did you want me to go ahead?
I'll let you go ahead and start, yeah.
one thing,
guess both of us are very much aware of the equality.
it seems like women are, just starting to really get some kind of equality not only in, jobs but in the home where husbands are starting to help out a lot more than they ever did.
it's not uncommon to see men doing dishes, making supper, or taking care of the kids
som ,
the generation of my parents and my great grandmother they did everything.
They went to work
they took care of the family,
I think that's changed just in the last generation.
Just in the last little while. Because I know my father in law doesn't do that much,
of that kind of stuff
my husband is wonderful.
that's the way my husband is too.
bother him at all to do the dishes.
It doesn't bother at all to do the laundry verses, men from way back.
There is that,
if you did that you were henpecked or whatever.
men are starting,
There are still some that aren't cooperating
those are very few.
I think those men don't last very long in relationships because I think women know what they want.
They're not accepting that anymore.
hard enough to be a woman out there trying to do everything, and then kind of real light pay.
There's just no way that we can be happy trying to do it all.
kind of a, neat thing to see as far as equality in the households,
I think that's even going to get better. Even,
even more so.
I think it's just going to be where men will do as much cleaning as women do and that it won't be your job description instead of your role definition is this.
It will be,
hopefully for my daughter who I instill into, it doesn't matter if you want to drive a truck, honey,
it doesn't matter if you want to be a nurse,
it doesn't matter if you want to be, the President,
it doesn't matter if you want to be a lawyer or a doctor,
it doesn't matter.
It's what you want to be.
I have always instilled into her,
I think mothers, are doing a really good job in raising their daughters to say, hey, you don't have to stay with nursing,
you don't have to be a secretary,
you don't have to be,
you can be whatever you want to be. Whether it be a welder or trucker or whatever .
As long as you, go to school for it and get the education,
I feel like, to an extent that is really important,
it is important for women who need to work
or are in a position that they want to
If they want to, right.
that they can do that.
I also think it is important for them to be with the children.
I do too.
there's a certain part of me,
I think are some things that women just are designed to do better than men.
there are some things that men are designed to do better than women.
I don't think it should ever be totally equal.
You know that's not,
we're not made like that.
emotionally I think,
That's right.
women do a little bit,
think the gap is coming closer what I've learned in, being out there.
It seems that men are now starting to get into groups called men's gatherings,
they get together
they talk about issues of marriage, talk about manhood, talk about what they didn't have with their fathers.
Are expressing more emotions, learning what emotions are.
It may be in the future that may be better parent or mothers than mothers themselves.
know of some mothers that guess I'd rather be with the father because the father is maybe more understanding, more, low key, more apt to be a better father than some mothers that I have seen that have been raised, to develop whatever skills that they have,
some of the men are developing, very good too.
it may come down to where individual basis. Where everybody is treated an as individual,
and not by sex.
If you want to stay home and take care of the kids, honey, that's fine.
I will go out and take care of the, money making.
wouldn't matter if it's a woman or a man saying that.
One of the frustrations that I have with the way things have developed is that, it's difficult for a family to make a living on one
On one income,
It can be done,
you make sacrifices.
Kind of like what, my husband and myself are doing right now.
My daughter's three, even though at this current time she's ready to get involved with,
she's an only child.
I don't know,
if you've only got one,
All righty.
What type of home do you have in Dallas?
We have a, four bedroom split brick home Richardson
we bought it back in about nineteen seventy three.
we've seen it go up in value wise real well .
good .
Yes .
it's probably typical of your neighborhood.
looks like all the others.
I'm in Plano just, north of where you live.
we live near Coit and Legacy in a relatively new development that just has gone in about two years ago.
I know where that is. Yeah. *
my home is typical.
It's brick home.
A two story brick home,
it's typical other homes in our neighborhood too.
you're in styles that they have started building in the last couple years with the real high ceilings,
are lovely.
one thing we did do instead of having a twenty foot living room ceiling,
we're from the north
we just couldn't stand the wasted space,
we had them,
we have a high entry hall
we had them level off our living room and dining room ceiling to, nine feet so we could get bedrooms above.
that way sort of have the entryway that looks typical of the area
we don't have so much wasted space.
we could get more bedrooms per square foot that way.
Have you, found in talking to your neighbors that your utilities are quite a bit higher with those high ceilings?
Mine are actually the lowest in the neighborhood.
Are they?
I would expect so.
I have wondered about the cooling and the heating.
Especially the cooling.
I know.
Our air conditioner, during the summer we,
it's over three fifty a month.
just to air condition it,
how many bedrooms do you have in your home?
I have, a master bedroom and a den on the main floor,
upstairs I have three bedrooms
I have,
I'm a writer
I work in my home
above the garage area I have a studio.
how nice. *
it's not really a bedroom.
It doesn't have a closet
it's the size of a three car garage.
that's where I work.
That's a pretty good size room.
That's neat.
this is our dream home,
we just absolutely,
love it.
it sounds like a real nice one.
really proud of it.
I just hope we never have to move again.
This is al , ,
Where did you move from?
Detroit this last time.
We were there two years
Do you like the Dallas area?
we love it.
I would imagine that you have found that the homes (( down here )) are, a much better value down here,
they're much,
aren't they, than they are,
much better constructed down south than they are up north too.
that's interesting.
The quality of the workmanship, we noticed a tremendous difference.
Up north they just kind of throw them together. Because we had homes built Detroit also,
they just didn't care.
If the trim work didn't line up what you get .
That's interesting because I've heard so many people down here say that they don't feel like the quality of the homes, are that good down here.
that's interesting.
the carpenter and painter and, everybody the marble man were just there in the house everyday when we would come to check on it as it was being built,
they'd say just look at this,
they seemed so proud of everything they did.
that's good.
it really made a difference to us.
I know said our house is about seventeen years old
we've been very pleased with it.
We've had no major problems with it.
Knock on wood .
it is the, two children growing up and now three grandsons roaming through it,
all the time.
we like our neighborhood.
the majority of the people, keep up the neighborhood.
That's important too.
that's very important
as I said has in value.
we bought back when housing was so low,
now i , i ,
then it started jumping by leaps and bounds.
It seems to have leveled off and actually dropped back down a little bit,
we're still fine.
ours is pretty much level in the two years ,
that we've been there.
We're hoping it takes off again,
Yes .
I don't know with the E D S building and Penny's and everything going in up on Legacy, we're hoping that brings in more people.
It should bring up your property values a little bit.
That's what we're hoping because,
Your pricing.
just real close where that is.
I think once the economic situation in the Dallas area
improves, I think the housing will go up.
I hope so too.
Right now there's a lot on the market for sale because of people having lost their jobs,
and everything
keeps prices down
and value down
I'm sure the (( packs )) , or
(( )) would like for it to go up.
I'm sure .
For that reason it can stay the same,
That's right .
That's right .
we love being where we are.
basically I am a mother of a three year old,
I kind of relate to trying to find a good day care because it's, extremely hard thing to do to trust somebody else with your child, trust their emotional and their safety and
all the rest of that.
I've been pretty selective,
what I'm finding is with, day cares that are like day care centers like, for instance, Learning Tree or Kinder Care and all of that.
What I find is that they're highly structured, highly organized. Almost too rigid for the children if you bring a child in at a certain time.
like nap time or whatever time, because of parents' hours they are differ ,
when I bring my daughter into such a system like that, they only have one thing going on
that's nap time.
Everybody is napping,
whether they came there an hour before or they came right during that time.
with that kind of a system my daughter just isn't likely to enjoy it if she has to good there immediately and lay down,
on a cot.
home day care has been an option.
I've looked into that.
The only thing is you raise the question of if it's safe, can you trust the people,
That's right.
you never know.
I have, an ex sister in law that,
currently has a child abuse case on a home baby sitter.
That's really scary.
To the point that you kind of say to yourself, especially home day care
I think center day cares there's so many people coming in and out
that you're better off if you're going to put a child into that type of system for eight hours, it's fine.
It depends on the age of the child.
some children do real well that are at the age of four or five or children that have been in that kind of system for a while
care works well if it's an infant.
if you want to have kind of a family structuring where there's a home that they can be provided. Because I've seen things at the day care where they can't keep up with all the kids.
The kids have,
they're sick all the time
the ,
I don't,
do you have an opinion on that, on the U S R?
I think skeptical about the whole thing. and little bit worried about them because of of Russia.
they're state of flux right now changing a great deal
primarily because of the economic distress.
even in that situation, it seems to me from what I've read the history of Russia different authors, there has always been a paranoia .
They've always suspected everybody
a lot of people in prison for years and years,
that's why they put a lot of people to death.
that happens.
Stalin classical example I guess of that paranoia because he
he probably killed more Russians than, the Russian army killed anybody else.
I guess in particular my viewpoint is that they financially cannot go into a war.
they are desperate at this point in time to keep their country together,
I could not foresee them severing what they have with the U S. because they need us at this current time because of their financial situation.
from what I've been hearing is the U S, S R has been, almost bankrupt for years
it's people are desperate,
there might be a revolution within the people.
I don't think the U S would get involved with it because, there's too close of ties to where I think they understand that Gorbachev is trying to make a change, and that we cannot run them like we run the U S
and that they have to make their own independent decision.
I guess I really have no fear at all of the U S S R verses,
you get these small little, places like Iraq and all of that, that might be something that I'd be more concerned about with nuclear weapons verses, as big country of U S S R.
I have no feelings that they would ever start a war with us because to them destroy their whole country because our technology is far advanced from what theirs is at this current time.
they have weapons to kill us over and over and over,
to them that would be a suicide
the Russian people are not suicidal type of people.
if you get the Iraqis and Iran which will do it for the country for the pleasure of, doing whatever, for their country, they'll do it.
There's a little more craziness down there .
the Russian people I think are not that much different
from us.
You know I think
that it would be the leadership that mistrust.
I have a daughter that's frustrated.
She's on stool that she can get up on
i ,
if she can't get down on it it's like, get me down right now .
it was really good talking to you,
you have a good weekend.
You too.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Bye now.
Bye bye.
as far as, universal health care
I guess I'm all for it.
I think it's time that we start looking at, getting into that.
health cost has continued to rise
I think, there's people that to me it's the fundamental,
life of a person.
it doesn't matter if you have money or all the money in the world,
you would,
You should still be ,
Everybody should be able to have surgeries that will save their lives or things that will make their life more comfortable verses than just the rich people that can afford to pay or to work for corporations that have wonderful health benefits.
I think if, they looked at it as a way of business helping out financially for universal health care and, individuals, helping out in some sort of way whether it be taxes or some how.
the expenses right now for health care, are just unreal.
they really are when you're not talking about surgery.
If you're just talking about basic care,
we've got four children
in the past month
they pass things from one to one
it just can devastate
your constantly,
your budget,
The only,
know that, I know a little bit about the, European, universal health care
there's some pros and cons.
One of the things, of course, is everybody gets health care,
sometimes health care, when you get into a universal system lacks in, what would be considered,
how can I say it?
over like in Poland, where my father in law lived for years there their health care system is,
no financial gains are available for doctors.
they may just go into being a doctor just clearly just to be a doctor for the full reason,
most people that go in to being a physician here in the U S do it for financial gain.
They say, jeez. If I get into this area of dermatology, I don't have to do this,
I can do this,
I can,
Can still make big bucks .
plastic surgery
if I become a, heart specialist I'm going to make this kind of money,
there's, financial gains toward that.
in a universal system I don't think there is a financial gain for the doctors.
Do you think that the quality,
The quality
it would
I think
would be as high?
goes down.
when you have a universal system.
the only way they could do that is by having a real good quality check, and also offering some kind of,
I think, anybody, likes the ability to kind of, get themselves financially, situated.
I guess that's the whole U S concept
is to come here and,
More motivation .
I don't know if you can have that with a universal system.
Maybe, there's a way of working that out,
I know that in Poland in particular the doctors just go to do their job and that's it.
That's what they look at it as.
There's no,
that's sad because if that's the case, if doctors aren't going in to be doctors to help people then maybe they shouldn't be in that area anyway.
that might be one way of weeding out those that are greedy for the money and those that really want to help mankind.
That's true.
think we have to head toward that way.
we're going to have to do something because there's just too many people in the country that are uninsured
you cannot,
it's just,
I'm worried when I get older.
let's say for instance you, get maybe laid off from your job.
You no longer have insurance.
you're sixty some or
fifty some years old you to find insurance.
I mean uninsurable.
That's right.
Unless you want to pay five hundred, six hundred dollars a month
I know people that are paying two hundred, three hundred dollars a month for insurance.
how they can do it I have no idea.
I know working for small corporations
health insurance, myself, it would cost for a family
this was back three, four years ago to put my entire family up
this was working for like a med center, health plan.
it was like eighty dollars out of my paycheck.
is three hundred for our family
we pay that instead of a car payment.
I'm driving a piece of junk,
we do the same.
I think, people are changing their viewpoints of,
it's getting harder and harder to survive.
that's why, if they don't go to a universal system, something is going to happen.
We're going to have, a larger amount of people dying.
do you all do for camping?
we don't do so much now,
when, I was, a child, we went regular old camping, tents and
and everything like that.
with our children, had a pop up tent camper.
we used that to go camping.
Where do you go?
lived in Oklahoma
we went to, Lake Ardmore,
Lake Murray
all the time.
when we did it with our children, we lived in, Tennessee
we went up to the
Which was just absolutely fantastic.
I bet it was.
Around Gatlinburg, or
somewhere up in there?
along the,
there's a ridge that goes down from Tennessee
through, Georgia and into Alabama
I think it was called, White Cloud or White Mountain.
did you all
And went up on it.
sleep in sleeping bags
did it get real cold at night,
It got real cold,
the, camper had, beds in it,
when we had that one,
had our bedding.
We didn't have to go with sleeping bags.
the , when I was teenager and growing up, that was sleeping bags
and joining blankets and sleeping on ledges or,
ground .
that got kind of rough sometimes .
we only did that once.
since we've been married, real often to Colorado to the mountains,
do you?
stay in cabins.
And, call that going camping,
we're really not.
the one time that I did go camping when I was about, I guess sixteen or seventeen with my family,
we drove up by Springs, Colorado.
And went back seventeen miles back in the back where you couldn't even get a forest ranger if you tried to tent for a week.
at night it was so cold, you thought you'd never feel your,
feet again.
the smell,
the stars were just five feet above you.
they were just right there.
just beautiful.
it was the most bonding, most wonderful time.
We enjoyed it.
about the fourth day, I thought, if I don't get a hot tub and
shave my legs, I'm going to die .
I had
I understand that .
I, I got enough of it right then.
when we can go to a cabin as long as we've got running water
I'm a little bit better off.
my husband and I, he says his idea now of roughing it is the Regency Hyatt.
(( I know that )) .
agree with him.
I agree with him, too.
Our children grown,
I know that we liked it when our kids were teenagers because we got away from the T V
that's true.
and the phone.
we got just strictly by ourselves.
some of the time we would not allow them to take friends along so that it was just the four of us.
we could, get back in touch with
each other .
they can't believe that they could survive it.
once they're there
I know.
think it's kind of cool.
I know.
thoroughly enjoy it.
enjoyed it.
all day.
Mom did the whole, pork and beans and, the slice the potatoes and fry them outside and
all the little stuff that we just were so amazed that she knew how to do .
couldn't believe,
know that, breakfast, have these big breakfasts cooked over this little Coleman
with bacon.
it would just absolutely taste wonderful.
daddy would always try to prove he could catch fish for breakfast
Yes .
we usually had a bite apiece .
I know that as a teenager growing up and going to Lake Murray, there would be maybe twenty, twenty five of us because it would be all of my mother's
my goodness.
family, and all my cousins.
is that hot camping.
Is that where hot, like on a beach,
is that,
a lot of our friends will,
a lot of our friends will go to east Texas in the summer and camp
I'm thinking, how could you stand it,
we didn't notice it back then,
that was back before
air conditioning was so
and all.
that's true.
We didn't,
always rained on us.
I don't care what weekend,
we went and when it was, it always rained on us.
I like that,
especially in the tent
every afternoon it would rain
you would get your book and just kind of cuddle up.
Cuddle up, huh.
I thought that was fun.
I don't know,
I remember one time, some cousins were in a tent
it was married cousins,
had the tent
this, frog strangler that we used to call them,
came through
, they had put their tent over kind of,
I don't know what,
it wasn't a creek bed,
it was a little, little, gully
or trench or something,
the water rushed down
they said they looked down and there went
Bud's boots
no .
There went several things floating down this water,
We just used to have balls.
Golly .
more fun.
as I said, it just rained every time.
my folks had a cabin at one time at Lake Tenkiller
we went up there,
it was never quite the same thing.
I understand that, too, because some of the places we,
in fact, more urban we get with the television and the cabin and the whole bit, it loses it's flavor.
it does.
It really does.
gotten in the mood to go now .
. Yeah,
even I would kind of like to go.
I know if I go home and say, let's go camping, my
husband says, you're crazy .
You're crazy .
listen, I enjoyed talking with you.
I enjoyed talking to you, too.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
Any vacations recently that you would highly recommend?
That is like my favorite hobby .
I would travel everywhere
I have been all over Europe and a lot of the United States
and Hawaii
C and,
So, when I can that is what I do .
has been your favorite trip do you think?
I am not sure.
I guess Hawaii is one of my favorite places.
Better than Europe?
no that is exciting.
I have been several times
after the first time it is like anywhere.
it loses that newness,
I love it.
I love to go over to Europe.
I do
mostly I travel through Germany and Switzerland
we have good friends in England
I have been there quite a bit
I just love it all.
I love to look at the different people and the different cultures and
to see how different they are from things are from the way we do them.
The most interesting part, more than the museums, and things like that.
how about you?
I have been to Canada several times
that is about it for me.
am from Denver
growing up, we would spend most of our vacations right there in Colorado.
my family is, real into camping and four wheeling,
think, maybe, four summers in a row, we spent, our vacation time in the summer, four wheeling through, portions of, the southern half of Colorado
every time, my mother had,
I have two other sisters
my mother had us, do some studying of area which we going to visit
we had to write,
no .
about it our vacation. was really fun.
It was really fun.
each got to write little books.
it had sparked an interest of mine,
my fiancee is a very very good photographer.
That is what she had originally gone to school to do. Was photography
am close to receiving my English degree, well as graduate degree,
have thought very seriously of trying to, incorporate travel into and writing a book about, some portion of travel,
we are hoping maybe within the next ten years to get take a trip Europe and take, a trip from the northern portion of France
down to the southern tip of Spain, and follow.
It is kind of a backward S shape, trail that the pilgrims use to take, back in the medieval times, to see the relics, in, southern Spain
and in Italy
we would like to take pictures of the gothic and Romanesque monasteries and, just take that journey all the way down
and then right a book about it.
That would be quite a project.
it would be
is our big dream.
it would be a lot fun.
there is good and there is bad
my experience in Italy was not my favorite for sure.
su ,
I flew into Milan.
My daughter is, a twirling champion
she had to perform over there in Turin
we had to fly into Milan
we got on the subway after so much trouble because the Italians, even if they speak English, they do not want to let you know
they gave us all the wrong directions
there were just two of us.
At the airport they put us on the wrong bus .
Finally, we saw a policeman.
He put us on the subway.
We sat there,
we did not know Italian.
We looked at each other.
We said things like spaghetti .
things like that.
We finally followed some kids who told us where to get off.
We followed these kids with, gym bags
we figured that must be the sports arena
we lucked out
when we needed to go to the bathroom there was nothing but a whole in the ground.
it was so,
It was kind of a nightmare.
that was our experience
I guess all of Italy is not like that.
where we were, it certainly was
the hotel that we stayed in,
we stayed with our English friends, their team in the hotel
it was beautiful.
It was very modern.
it was very far away on a bus.
really, it was interesting.
You always learn something.
you always have a fun experience
it is great.
You said that you have been to England several times?
I wonder, have you ever been to small town,
it is actually about thirty minutes from Salisbury.
It is called, Bemerton?
I have not. Huh
Our friends live like an hour outside of England, like Ash, around there.
the reason I am curious, I,
the other place I would like to visit,
I guess you heard for today was clothing?
I certainly did.
How you dress for work and season to season and everything.
How do you dress for work?
about the same I dress for school.
am a graduate student
I don't have to worry too much about, what I wear too much of the time.
Which is nice.
You bet.
although I do, a lot of,
I am a speech pathology major
I do a lot of clinical work
when I do clinic work then I have to, look my best.
Look professional .
I understand.
I am a,
I own my company.
I am in the, manufactures rep sales organization
my office is a small office
I am very casual and wear slacks and sports shirt and things like that
then when I travel it is a little different situation.
suits and sports coat, tie and the whole bit.
Cause you go to meetings and you are required to look your best and look professional of course.
do you find that, on the average do people give more credibility or less credibility dressed individual.
I think in today's society, there is more credibility to be quite honest
I will always remember,
I will tell this real quick story when I graduated from college,
my first job years ago, thirty years ago, twenty nine years ago, in fact, was selling agricultural fertilizer.
I worked for the, Smith Douglas Division of Borden Chemical
I sold manure.
I would go out and call on farmers
I would always try to look my best wearing sport coats and things like that,
I was calling on guys that wore bib overalls.
one day I got up and thought I will just go casual and you know that I called on a guy wearing exactly that, bib overalls,
he sort of told me that he expected me to be professional
he sort of expected me to dress as a professional
it was sort of,
Even the farmers.
You bet
even back then
I been aware of my dress ever since then and
try to look my best,
here again I dress casual quite a bit
It gives you confidence.
In my business if I call on the the J C Penney company here in Dallas or say someone say Sears and Roebuck in Chicago, then I wear coat and tie.
If I call on just, a normal little dealer of mine, I might be casual.
I call on Oshman's sporting goods, again, it may be casual or it may be coat and tie.
it depends.
it depends.
you don't,
if you had the choice would you wear a tie or not?
probably no.
Probably, no.
Because, today I believe you can get away with,
then it depends on who you are calling on.
Who you're,
you like your minister standing up in front of you with no tie, he would be missing something.
Although, he shouldn't be evaluated on that.
just different.
you wanted to, really get into a hot issue,
, at least in some in some beliefs, how people dress when they go to church sometimes a hot topic.
it is.
un , unfortunately.
I am, a Catholic
the people that go to my Church,
Catholics dress very casual
a lot of the times.
People in jeans and in whatever,
yet the way I was raised,
I am a converted Catholic,
the way I was raised,
I was raised a Baptist
as a youngster I use to always dress up all the time.
I guess that has changed also.
. yeah.
I go to the Church of Christ.
I have been raised in the Church of Christ
I, too many times you hear you hear a lot about to look your Sunday best
and dress and proper attire
sometimes that really disappoints me, when I see in other economic areas like in Kentucky.
people just don't have that
they are afraid to go to church or afraid to go simply because
(( )) .
they don't have the clothes to wear.
That is a very good point.
I am from West Virginia
I understand what you are saying there
a very good point.
judge a book by its cover.
evaluation of an individual. Course, all of it depends on the type of job responsibility you have.
I think you have to dress sort of accordingly.
you certainly should not judge a book by its cover and, or evaluate a person by that.
What about season to season.
I guess your dress changes.
a little bit.
, of course in the summer if I can get away with it, I wear, a pair of shorts
that's it.
Run around barefoot,
no shirt or anything .
Okay, Ron.
Welcome to the net
what did you do about your last auto repair,
might you say what kind of cars you have and so forth.
Larry, my last one, unfortunately, was expensive one because I had a brand new Lincoln Town Car
a couple of ladies ran a stop light,
the lights weren't working properly,
it wasn't their fault,
didn't run it.
We both had green,
she hit me and did about eleven thousand dollars worth of damage to my car,
My goodness gracious that's,
That was a huge repair bill.
that's still not enough for a total, is it.
I know,
I hated that.
It's a very expensive automobile.
it wasn't enough to total it,
been my most, expensive repair probably in the last year, with the except of just service work, because I buy a new car every two years
do you buy one every two years?
I travel a lot,
this last one I leased,
I don't know,
I leased it on a twenty four month program.
First time I've ever done that.
I'll probably go back to buying them, because I don't care to lease them .
Did this car have one of these expanding balloons,
just are there normal safety belts in it, that you had.
it has the expanding balloons.
Did that help you?
they didn't go off.
They didn't go off.
I guess we weren't going,
that sort of upset me,
we weren't going fast enough acco ,
when I called the dealership about it and called Ford Motor about it,
no, sir,
didn't go off,
we were
(( )) .
it was a bad, rainy, dark, dreary day,
the street lights.
you were hit in the side, weren't you?
That may be the problem.
may, you may need to be hit leaning towards the forward
to activate it.
Took off my whole front fender and hood and everything.
I tell you, just
My goodness.
took it all off.
It was
my doors were okay front and back
it did, right eleven thousand dollars in damage.
It was a expen ,
then I get it back and two weeks after that, I'm driving it in front of the local high school, and some young man just wasn't paying any attention and runs in the back of me.
That's another twelve hundred dollars worth of damage .
My goodness.
I'm going to get,
when my twenty four months is up on this car, I'm getting rid of this car.
I would think so .
This doesn't sound like you've got very good luck with that one.
My golly.
How about you, Larry?
I'm relatively fortunate about that.
here we, somehow, don't have many people run into us, although at the beginning of each school season, students move into town who are from big cities,
they sort of drive kind of wild for about two, three weeks, then they finally settle down and,
realize that they don't have to drive that way here.
I understand.
that takes the strain off of everyone that, is driving a vehicle,
I find that the most of the repairs I have to do here is body damage due to the salt that we have to put on the road to, take care of us in the winter time.
I understand.
I have a sixty nine cougar and a seventy seven pontiac, so forth,
I have to,
I drive a Honda most of the time,
I have to make sure that, salt and so forth are kept off of it,
once in a while we have to replace some of the plates in the bottom of it
because it's rusted away.
I understand that because I'm from West Virginia,
we had the same thing up there continuously salting the roads for snow.
I had this Cougar rebuilt, to get some of the rusts that were in the fenders
done, and then it all repainted,
winter got here
I put the cover over it then to keep the ice and snow off,
I haven't had a chance to drive it very much .
are you going to buy this next car
you going again?
buy it, Larry,
I don't like the rental,
I think, I'm getting ready to retire myself,
Are you?
be, driving a car for longer,
I usually drive a car for three years,
last couple of cars I've only driven for two years,
I'd leased this one for two years.
I'll probably go back and buy one,
this next car will probably be my retirement car.
that's an awfully big one, one that you had, that Lincoln,
isn't it too large for normal town driving, finding parking places
no sir.
and getting in and out the doors?
Not really,
not really
no problem at all.
My wife and daughter,
we have, two Toyotas in the family, one Nissan,
we have the Lincoln
not really,
no problem there at all as finding parking places,
it's convenient regard.
that certainly would be a wonderful, comfortable machine to take on long trips
it is.
very much aware of that.
I travel,
I'm like a traveling salesman,
don't travel a lot any more,
when I do take it, it is very comfortable to drive.
I'm sure it is, because that's the way that I enjoy this Pontiac that I have.
It only has thirty eight thousand miles on it,
Is that right?
very quiet and very smooth riding machine.
my wife's Toyota is soon to be four years old,
it doesn't even have thousand miles on it,
gosh, been in such good shape, that'll probably be an eight or ten year car.
feel that,
I don't know.
My personal perception of government and, the way things are at this current time, is that nobody can really be trusted.
I don't feel that too many of the candidates are out there to, be self serving to the community.
I think that they have their own, wishes to, be in the limelight and to kind of say, hey, I'm a public official, I don't have to do, certain things
they just stand out more. Involving themselves more and more with politics
it's really,
after all the things that I've seen in the last ten years about government and now the overdrafts, of checks, before that it was the wonderful, escapade that they had with, the new, (( God )) , chief of,
Supreme Court,
I'm trying to think of his name and, what they put, him through in regards to,
The harassment, that kind of thing and just to see our government react to that and then just little things that have added up where people have taken vacations on taxpayers' monies and things like that.
just think it's very corrupt and whether or not they need to start with people that are extremely poor,
and send them into government versus people that are rich.
it's always the rich person that gets into government. That has the money to advertise, the money this.
There's no more Lincolns out there, that can get into government, even if they were poor.
I know that's my personal viewpoint of things.
Doesn't Wisconsin have a, state, Medicare program or health program?
already put through the health bill .
It just went through
it was passed
that is going to be a heavier tax burden on a lot of the and a little bit more on to the medical.
I don't know if that was done out of just let's be the first state to do it or if it was done really for the needs of the people.
You know what I'm saying?
right now every little state around here is thinking about we need to reform the health, system
of course, they think, passed a state law, the health bill
it's kind of like we're the first to do it.
I don't know if it's done because to be standing out as being innovative in the health system or whether it was done for, a real good purpose to help people that can't afford, health insurance, that kind of thing.
think one of the biggest problems that, we see in government today is a reflection of society in and of itself.
that is, we become so debt ridden and credit oriented
instead of, cash and carry or debt free
therefore, that puts a lot of undue pressure on municipalities, state and federal governments.
sure does.
(( )) .
I think is reflecting.
Like you said I think society as a whole, you can't expect,
when we have T V s and we have things that are kind of bombarded at us for, immorality and this and this and this, that we can expect somebody to come off that's going to be .
And come into government.
down the line it does hurt.
when somebody's corrupt and somebody's doing something, does hurt each individual of the society when you find out that somebody's done something or the overdraft policy or, the other things that have occurred,
what is,
the thing when a lot of things become acceptable practice
it's hard to discern what has become muddy as to what is ethical and what is not ethical.
someone blows the whistle and says, this is not ethical and yes I did it too.
that's exactly what happens in government all the time.
They blow the whistle on each other.
I hear that you're doing this,
I've done it
it's not going to get out.
Ex ,
there's no
we just had,
secrets in the government.
I don't think anymore.
The mayor of Dallas is,
He also, was a congressman.
he had been in that position for years.
he was elected mayor of Dallas
However, if the vote was taken today, the whole thing might change because he was part of that, check kiting scam .
don't think, ,
go ahead
am glad to talk to an expert.
I always wanted to know who an expert was.
I'm not an expert,
seen a little pollution in my time.
chemicals we were dealing with were, a Raid repellent
that was really quite dangerous,
I'm not certain that that was,
really a pollution issue.
I think pollution issue is, is the argument people catching, things like, respiratory disease.
two things,
the one I'm interested the most, I guess, myself, would be Freons (( )) , for (( air cond , ))
the one, I guess, that's the one I'm most curious about is how they're going to replace the Freons in air conditioning.
That seemed to be the biggest surprise to me
when they replace it, they're going to really come up with something that is not just as bad.
another arguable issue
seen the,
assuming you can buy into global warming I bi ,
I, was,
where they were all concerned about that,
it seems to be,
did you see Carl Sagan on SIXTY MINUTES when he was talking about the, if the war started Kuwait and they'd set those, all th ,
I heard about it though.
it was interesting
I'm just curious what he has to say now that they've got them all lit.
Was that before,
I didn't see it,
was that before they actually did that
it was w ,
his argument you would see year with no summer.
Because of that,
Which actually happened.
ac ,
it actually happened,
it was a volcano erupted
it was high enough up
they had some people from the national meteorological center I think it was (( )) which is the national, research people
they said pollution would not go high enough.
it's going to be interesting to see if Carl Sagan and his billions and billions of stars,
may have once made a mistake,
th , the, the com , the general, the opinion the, meteorologists at,
I'm, member of the American Meteorological Society,
an ,
Are you d ,
you didn't work at T I?
I do.
I did that in my (( )) .
Where do you work in research,
No, I'm
I'm in the active reserves as a weatherman,
keep up from time to time,
what argument is maybe there isn't global warming and maybe there is.
if there is, we probably could do something about it now,
and we do some the right things, I think,
how do you feel all this smog and stuff on cars.
I'm kind of a car buff myself,
I was going to ask you another question,
do that in a minute.
think that the changing, from leaded fuel was a tremendous advantage, using ...
do you have an older car?
have been working on an older car
it to ,
I'm a car buff too,
we ought to talk about that one day,
I'm restoring one.
I think the octane I don't think you'll have any trouble.
I'm not having any problem it's a seventy.
I, work on my own cars
I don't think that's a problem.
I thought,
I'm saying, I was glad to get rid of leaded gasoline,
did you have another ques ,
you said you had another quest ,
ye ,
i ,
the same thing about the war, or related to the war on,
I was watching C N N
I cannot remember what station it was,
did you see the advertisements, where they talked about nuclear war, what that would have been like in changing the atmosphere,
it is so scary that I hope that every one of the government officials saw that because it was just total disaster,
e ,
Did you see any of those, I,
it was,
I didn't see (( that )) , that,
I know that the,
that's ...
It must have been channel thirteen,
I don't recall,
although, I thought it was on C N N,
they (( called nuclear winner ))
I suppose the ultimate, pollution problem.
It was a somewhat of a commercial because it I saw it regularly
it showed that
it was really devastating
(( it would, )) ,
how much ash would fall
how it would essentially literally destroy the world,
(( )) the Chernobyl accident,
the circulation budget as high as it went, covered, a fairly remarkable amount
they did some tracers
think it's (( drawn )) in,
I think, gets in there
(( )) I can't think of the other trace,
I saw presentation that
it went quite a long ways I guess I can be a little sympathetic
there's some argument that in the blue grass of Kentucky that the Smoky Mountains pine trees giving off pollution
probably a lot of natural things,
get up in the morning Dallas see all that haze from west Texas,
I guess it's got to be really,
I don't know,
I don't know if it's air pollution dust pollution whether it's natural or not I don't know.
that's the thing is that Dallas really does have a problem in this,
the idea if we could get some cleaner
the problem it's like Los Angeles.
want to use mass transit,
I live in Arlington
there are no buses.
you see are school buses,
ride a bus?
I know
the car is,
we have this big romance with the car,
I think people would be interested if you had one,
my boss drives forty miles one way each day.
one of the guys that works with me drives forty five miles.
they don't think it,
I guess they do think something of it
not even to,
you consider how much,
then you get into all these issues whether the types of pollution and what it's doing to your lungs
are we going to die respiratory,
we all move out downtown
we get away from smog.
wife grew up in southern California
they moved out to the valley the valley was clean.
now the valley is not
people move out (( one more )) valley and,
you said you were car buff,
I think that, all of us could use one electric car right now, today,
Yes, yes.
because I think, you said people drive forty miles and fifty whatever,
when you go to trips and all you can have one gasoline car
I think we all could, in a family, have an electric car where one of my daughters or she could use one now if they had one,
do ...
because put fifty miles a day on the car.
General Motors apparently has one that testing,
I think alcohol vehicles that they're testing (( )) .
you're right.
have seen them
they have a battery car.
they suppose,
I went to the auto show this past week
they did not endorse,
now that I think of it,
I was so interested in the auto show I didn't think to ask anybody,
there were no electric cars.
I was surprised
now that you just mentioned that.
(( the )) ROAD and TRACK was talking about that apparently General Motors has some,
they apparently think they're close.
think, there could be a lot of (( peo ,
I thi , ))
people close this is really,
nine years away or less, I guess, from the next century and I think,
(( still a lot of research,
I was over the (( research )) lab I guess, it's been about a month ago
and saw this, (( )) research (( it was a little light )) that says powered research.
area over in, the (( S M )) building too which is,
it's a solar,
it's for, (( the , g ,
)) (( gots )) some money from a power company
it's probably more generating power for, electricity, a hundred and twenty volt or whatever.
do you work in that C building?
I'm actually in the south building
(( I'm at )) ,
the (( facility ))
I've been in most of the buildings anyway.
(( the )) C building,
been there for, all my life.
solar area is around from the auditorium now.
they've got several different, areas where they're called solar lab.
right there on the first floor you by there.
that's been a (( con , ))
I know the focal plain array is they were taking space a long time.
the solar project, T I's been into it for years,
I guess it's just not, economical yet because of the other fuels.
the problem is that gas at a dollar a gallon, who wants to,
we want to not pollute,
at a dollar a gallon, it's hard to beat,
the amount of energy you get from,
I've seen some.
I think
(( then again I'm surprised now I didn't )) think they'd asked anybody when I was in the auto show.
There was nothing,
there was no, place for air pollution or companies or anyone there.
It was just pure automobiles.
I thought I saw an ad for Volkswagen that had an alcohol,
they had one with spots on it and something.
I didn't go
i ,
wa ,
it was showing they,
I didn't see,
an article.
did you go?
I didn't,
I didn't go,
I wh ,
I was, quite impressed with all the cars,
the engines are so much smaller now and everything
all have brand new engines, even General Motors,
very few
only the Caprice and them and the Cadillac had
they're all brand new engines,
of course, they're burning gasoline, of course.
They've done a lot.
that's one way, f ,
on air pollution I don't know if the automobiles are the biggest contributor or not really.
They've got catalytic converters,
everyone seem to have gone to that, whether they last, and do a good job
now that the inspection systems are analyzing that,
what do you think
ther ,
if you're knowledgeable on that.
it's interesting though because my cars are older
I didn't have to,
if you live in Dallas County you it checked
it's (( )) ,
I had a friend with a Fiero that, they tried and tried and tried and had all kinds of terrible getting that (( pinned ))
apparently ...
I just got back from taking my little girl to her Brownie meeting,
we had a bag filled full of cans
they've been recycling at their school.
she wanted me to just wait and let her dump them off tomorrow.
they were filled with beer cans .
Hm .
I hated to take a big old sack, like a lawn bag
full of them.
we'll just taking them up there and put them in the bins anyway.
They had tickets at their school that they recycle newspapers cans,
I think that's all.
they're taking the money that they earn to plant trees.
that's a good idea.
they've got their bins that stay there,
they've decorated real cute, with a bunch of big old flowers
and stuff.
they're getting into it.
I don't know what they get for the tickets, though.
What do you get for the tickets, if you bring stuff?
the class that gets the most tickets gets a party .
that's good.
It's not bad, yeah.
I know,
we are kind of getting into recycling now.
I'm in college,
I live in a dorm,
we recycle paper.
I know that there's a glass plant up here,
they recycle glass,
we recycle old aluminum cans and all that kind of stuff.
in each of the dorms you have a place for that?
That's really good.
when our dorm,
whenever our bins are all filled up, we take them and turn them in,
we get money for that.
For the dorm,
who decides what you do with it?
it with the dorm.
what do they do with it?
we buy things for the dorm, whatever the dorm needs,
we have access to a microwave and an oven if we want to cook things,
we buy, like, cooking equipment and stuff.
we play games, like board games.
We buy board games.
it's just different things, whatever,
we vote on it,
whatever the dorm would want, that's what we buy.
I graduated from college in nineteen seventy two,
we were just, not aware that this was a problem, that we ever would need to recycle.
Of course, you just threw it away.
a little different.
I wanted to do this thing that you can get through Target, to recycle.
I had my school do it,
my principal said since we're doing this thing called Operation Desert Shield, we're sending letters to all these servicemen and making video tapes and all that .
The whole school,
it was just this big project,
she didn't want to get into that.
I could do it in the center,
I just never got around to it.
it's like a club,
you know about that?
A little boy that had died of leukemia, I think,
he had started this, save the environment club.
his mother is carrying this on.
you can get the information to set it up,
and join,
you don't have to join it as a group or anything, I don't guess.
that'd be go ,
you could start your own anyway.
Get a pamphlet,
Is that what this target is,
what you're,
Do you all have Target stores up there?
That's a department store.
Kind of like K Mart
except it's a little better than what K Mart sells, I think.
I would like,
let's start up a Target.
I don't really know any other recycling that they do.
having it picked up
at your houses or anything.
We have to take it to a recycling place.
Now in some of the towns around us, they're already picking up the newspapers.
they're doing that here, too, now that I think about it . Once every so many weeks,
you have to pull out all the slicks,
you have to wrap them up with string.
I think that's all they're picking up.
in Minnesota, they've got their bins where you put plastics and your bottles.
I didn't know that.
my brother in law lives in Minnesota,
they're are just nice, plastic bins,
you fill them up and put them out with your other trash,
they pick them up.
I never heard of that .
Do you all have can banks?
not that I know of .
I sus ,
a big old bin,
you just feed your cans slowly into the slot,
your money comes out, every once in a while, for however much poundage you've got.
if you keep feeding it until the light goes off.
my gosh.
you get instant cash.
they had one that I was putting my stuff in,
I went to take some today,
it was gone.
I don't know.
I located another one today on the way to work.
we have places where we go
do is we unload our cans.
It's like a conveyor belt,
the belt separates the aluminum ones from the steel ones because it has a magnet on it.
they weigh, your aluminum cans,
you get money for your aluminum cans.
they don't give you for the other.
now they're going to start giving us money for the other ones, too.
Before, they didn't.
I know they're going to start now.
they're certain places, where down there you can take your leaded cans.
I don't know where they are.
They publish it in the newspaper if you wanted to get into it.
I don't know.
I'm trying
I just can't recycle everything.
I'm not that dedicated.
that's all I really know about recycling.
Me, too.
If they would.
I know, we're saving our grocery bags now.
they're taking those up.
You can take them to the stores .
Kroger's doing it.
I think Skaggs.
Do you have those up there?
We have Kroger, but not a Skaggs.
they're taking our milk cartons and our plastic coke bottles there, too.
That's pretty good isn't it.
You guys are getting into it more than we are.
It sounds like it,
you'd think you would be.
I've never seen any, places that do.
I know, we reuse our grocery bags now.
We take them back, and use the ones that we have.
You can like,
if you have grocery bags you can take them and use them instead of getting new ones.
You mean where you sack your own groceries.
we don't have any place that collects the grocery bags.
I don't want to go with those canvas bags right now, I'm sorry.
I'm not that European .
they do that like,
I went to Europe, nineteen seventy three.
they go all the time.
It's like they would go almost every day to the store.
they had their little bags
way back then, and fill it up.
they had this little bitty old teeny refrigerators.
That's why.
They couldn't put anything in it hardly.
what are you going to do when you get out of college?
I'm a finance major.
that's why I did what I did.
I went into teaching .
Here in Texas it's a real mess right now.
There's no.
Let's see,
we've had the funding,
we've run out of money.
We've frozen the money.
they had until the fifteenth of April to come up some formula that would be more equitable to different districts according to finances, because the poor districts were getting less money, so not as good an education.
now they're trying to take some money away from the richer districts, like the one that I'm in, in Dallas, and make us pay our money to the smaller ones and make it more equitable.
if they can't come up with something by the fifteenth, then the state's supposed to decide, the courts.
What do you think the outcome will be?
I think they're maybe going to give us a state income tax.
Do you have one?
I'm not looking forward to it,
something's got to be done.
we've had one as long as I can remember .
it's going to hit us.
I don't know,
did ,
doesn't seem like it work to take it away when we're using it.
I know we're not using it so wisely.
We have too many administrators
in some of these big districts.
other than that. can you think of anything else we need to talk about.
I can't think of anything on recycling.
Me, either.
Anything else?
What about people from, Pennsylvania.
What do they think about Texans?
What do we think about them?
I don't know .
Have you thought about that?
I never really thought about it .
(( )) what you think about Pennsylvanians.
Probably a lot more civilized, more, refined than a lot of the people would be down here.
really .
I would hope so,
you've been together a little bit longer than we have.
I don't know,
I really don't know anyone from Texas or anything.
I've never been there,
I've never,
let's see,
I think I have too been to Pennsylvania.
we went up there. Now that I think about it. On one of our long trips
we take off on.
What are you saying, Holly?
my little girl is in the second grade, told me to tell you that Shboom means good bye in the Israeli language.
(( )) is what you say it is, Holly?
she's got this little girl from Israel in her classroom that she's befriended.
she's into this.
is it like a foreign exchange type student?
You know we've had a lot of the Jewish people ...
Colorado Springs.
up in, T I out there?
right .
Did you hit one.
I just hit one then.
All right.
The savings and loan scandal.
I, got to,
this is going to be fun.
Are you Republican or Democrat?
kind of neither.
I was going to say if you're a Republican, boy we would really have a good time.
I do have some Republican leanings, because,
I am division one, .
to answer that one before we get to our subject, I always get a kick out of Republicans who take credit for all the military hardware that was bought for the war and how successful it was, though when it comes to the budget they say well the Democrats control all the money
they're the ones wasting all the money.
I always wondered how they can play the money either way they want,
I get a kick out of that.
the subject, go ahead.
You first.
I think it's a stinking shame that there isn't capital punishment for those assholes that stold our money.
don't think it's over.
I think that, so many other things have taken over, in the media.
I think it was just plain greed,
I think it was deregulation really when they said do anything you want banks.
Go ahead loan your money out,
I agree with you.
I think it had something to do with deregulation,
I believe, more of it was just greed.
I was talking to someone,
I can't remember who it was,
he was a small businessman,
he said that the banks were calling,
he borrowed some money
the banks were calling and just looking for people to give their money away.
They just got totally carried away with buying property and reselling the same property
should be thousands of people in jail as far as I'm concerned.
Not just a couple.
we've watched and watched T V and seen that a lot of these people were doing things, not just playing in the gray and not just reselling property at a profit, but financing the same property three and four times,
the list goes on and on.
agree a hundred percent.
just the crimes committed.
Much less for criminals that should be indicted.
It may have started with HUD too.
I noticed that HUD was in terrible shape
that was property
they lost a lot of money there,
some of these big, these rich people started to,
even Murchison here, who owned the Cowboys, had a lot of property down in Florida.
This was several years ago
he lost, of his money before he died.
Not all of it,
I don't know how much he lost,
they were just buying property and buying all kinds of real estate and thinking that there was a bottomless pit
it always would, be more than what you paid for it
they just never even got conservative with our money at all.
everyone forgets whose money it was.
everyone forgets that there are several of these people that are wanted by the federal government currently and are overseas where extradition is merely a funny American word.
as far as being a Republican or a Democrat, I think no American could stand for criminal action.
the reason that I said that is because I was going to blame all, Reaganomics for,
you spend your way to prosperity
when you opened up the bank deregulation without any controls, I thought, that was the philosophy,
Just keep spending until taxes are lower,
I thought, that's not going to work,
I knew that it wasn't going to work originally.
it hasn't worked now.
a healthy economy has a lot of spending going on.
no doubt,
no doubt.
if people are making money, people can spend money,
it'll generate taxes.
I agree with that,
there's got to be some control
apparently there was,
the problem is,
the problem with Reaganomics is that the people at the top are the ones getting rich.
for what they would cost
we weren't producing anything.
We, as Americans weren't producing anything.
It was all inflation.
I'm sorry we don't get into a real argument over it,
we agree too closely,
I know, .
can't say that that was right.
No intelligent person can say that we could spend our way rich.
Remember all we're doing is delivering pizzas to each other.
not high quality ones at that,
I do have a lot of confidence in American people and the economy and everything else.
feel bad when I see the inefficiency, even here at T I,
I think that the,
a lot of the workers don't understand that, they need to put out the best that they can because it comes right back to them,
It is a life and death struggle,
I know,
of course I'm in facilities,
I work with a lot of mechanics
I just cannot understand why they're just happy to spend their time here rather than produce,
they think that, I'm paid anyway
it doesn't matter,
very tired of it all pays by the hour.
I'm nonexempt.
You don't sound like a nonexempt, Jim.
You don't sound like a nonexempt.
does a nonexempt sound like?
you're too informed.
they're very, not interested.
They wouldn't even talk probably about some of the things we're talking about now.
I guess I'm dealing with too many Texas mechanics here.
I don't know really.
I'm being a Yankee, I guess letting my Yankee come out,
now maybe I'm not the, typical nonexempt that you deal with.
The badge is silver.
I am degreed, though nonexempt.
that's good.
No .
That's not good
that's good that you're degreed,
your time will come.
I know a few people,
do not wish my time to come.
are you in a tech,
do you do technician work or something?
government tool control is my specialty now.
I did P C protection control work for,
quality, okay.
About ten or twelve years,
right now I'm just trying to tool crib and (( )) chips.
Times are bad.
really terrible.
I'm, management level facilities,
when the cuts came, three of us got, bounced back,
we're just,
I'm calling you from work.
covering, weekends and nights now.
one of the manager reps,
there's three of us to cover in Dallas facilities
just we're essentially standby and problems, nights and weekends.
That's my,
I only get one weekend off a month right now.
I call it my recession job.
being basically an engineer and liking, doing installation work, there's not any.
there literally is no installation work going on.
They turned all installation up here off.
They told facilities they could not work.
I don't care what the jobs are, you will not work.
as far as conversation goes, I would really be interested to know how much of T I's problems now are related to,
the banking structure.
I think that, only T I, but a lot of it, when they talk about,
there was one point I was going to make.
I think the last I heard,
I, I have to admit I'm not as informed as them,
there's something like about eighty six billion that they admit.
I always double that.
I figure if they claim that it's going to cost us eighty six billion, it's got to be twice as much because no one admits their mistakes
if that's true, it may mean that two hundred billion dollar category went down the tube somewhere.
it really hurts me,
It's amazing really.
It's amazing that,
to realize that a lot of people out there are trying to retire on their home values.
I know what you mean.
one of our senior,
Course your value of homes up there are pretty good.
here they're not really that high,
are they pretty good up there?
Our economy in Colorado Springs fell completely apart.
we're in the metroplex here,
I die every time companies like General Dynamics,
lost several contracts
I don't know if you noticed yesterday, you probably don't pay attention to the Bell Helicopter,
they were going to have big, award,
Secorski got it. Which was Boeing Secorski, which is up in the north somewhere,
it's northwest.
I don't know how,
Bell didn't get it.
also, they do some of that in Wichita, Kansas.
they were advertising here that it was Bell, T I.
T I was getting the, electronics with Bell,
it was a double.
One that Bell is in the Metroplex
two, that T I was doing the electronics for them.
advertised it was all of a sudden, Secorski got it, yeah.
Secorski Boeing.
Secorski, Boeing,
Boeing doesn't need the money.
I almost think there's some politics around here, because the metroplex here, in the Dallas, Fort Worth area, with T I,
I don't know if T I has lost as much as everybody else,
General Dynamics and L T V and Bell have lost project after project,
you realize ...
There you go.
Jean, the subject is jury trials
should the jury recommend, sentencing.
my personal opinion,
I don't know.
here lately it seems,
up until a few years ago, I guess, there just too many liberals about and permitting too many,
they just broaden the human rights cover just about I don't think those guilty of committing capital crimes should be permitted to go spend a few years in jail and be turned lose on parole.
It's just not right.
I think I agree with that very much.
do you,
I think juries should be able to recommend sentencing.
Do you think a lot of people, when they are listening to a trial, put themselves in a position like that and say, I would never do something like that,
it's for them to believe that somebody else could do the things that have been done?
very possibly.
So many of us have led sheltered lives
that, when we sit in on, a jury,
I've never done it myself
I never have either.
I wish I could have.
Is there a reason why you have never,
I've just never been called up.
My husband works as a police man,
I always assumed that that was why I was never called.
that's possible.
I was called up as an alternate once,
never made it to the jury.
do they have such a thing now as a six man jury?
Not that I know of.
Somebody told me the other day that there is, (( )) what they call a six man jury,
I had never heard of such thing,
I wondered if it was true.
. I've never heard of it.
I never had either,
I just wondered.
another question was, the jury be unanimous on their decision,
that I wasn't sure on either, whether it should be unanimous or not.
there again, I suppose it should be.
That would mean they all would have to decide
one way or the other.
Is it guilt or innocence.
then again, so many times you get one or two holdouts,
it permits the criminal to get a retrial.
that's not too bad in this sense, because you might get someone in their that's a victim of circumstances
that's happened
and giving them another trial might give them additional time to, prove their innocence.
Bring some of these things out.
We can't overlook the fact that there are innocent people that do get involved in jury trials.
apparently there are.
since my husband worked as a policeman, I can't believe there are very many people that come to trial that are not guilty of
some part of whatever they're accused of.
a little bit of a problem with that.
I would suppose there are circumstances, you're in the wrong place at the right time, or know the wrong person at the right time.
that's it,
you just might resemble somebody.
out here in Texas we had a, great miscarriage of justice.
taken care of.
We had,
a Black man was accused simply because he resembled
someone up, a, Seven Eleven, I think it was.
even though he had witnesses that said that, he was at work,
he had all sorts of character witnesses and what not,
They still found him guilty?
They found him guilty.
When people said he was at work?
they said happened during lunch time.
he could have gotten away at lunch time
and committed the robbery.
after nine years,
as a matter of fact they made a T V show about it, after nine years, they finally came up with evidence to prove that he was innocent.
for heaven's sake.
there's nine years of that man's life gone.
that just was not fair.
I guess that's where a lot of the problem lies,
bend over backwards protecting the guilty people, the one's that are on trial.
Unfortunately, that's what happens.
we often forget about the one the injustice has been done because I they still say our system is the best in the world.
best system,
it's the best one in the world.
it's the best one that exists, I guess.
unfortunately, we just have to put up with a lot of things,
they try to solve them and everything,
I don't know,
the Supreme Court,
I'm still rancled about their decision to permit burning of the flag.
I think a lot of people are.
I think they've lost sight of some things that are very important to our country.
the First Amendment definitely says freedom of speech
not freedom of action.
that just rancles me
I swear, if I ever saw somebody burning a flag, try to kill them, I would.
That bad,
I wouldn't like it,
I don't know if I'd go that far.
I happen to be a flag freak.
was in the service
I was in Korea
I saw what the red in the flag represents.
I think pride in our country and our flag is so important.
It's important in so many facets of our lives.
feel like if like what our flag stands for, they're welcome to go some place else.
what they,
There's nobody holding them here.
how they'd like it under another flag.
They'd soon be back,
I'm sure.
Jean, we seem to be of the same opinions here.
I hope they get something out of this.
I don't know about the judge making the decision, if that's,
do you think that's good
like if a jury,
passing sentence?
I think the jury should be able to recommend,
Make a recommendation?
Do they sometimes make a recommendation?
That's what I was thinking sometimes do.
I don't know if that's a regular procedure or what.
I know I'm always hearing that,
the jury came in with a guilty verdict
they recommended,
they recommend.
twenty years or something.
the judge has the final decision
on what does really happen. Yeah.
Of course, the jury may not be completely aware of all the ramifications of a sentence.
They may not know that if you give him twenty years he can get out in five.
I think that's where a lot of people think, boy they're getting put away for a long time,
actually, their chance, course, when,
a lot of times when they come up for parole, they're denied.
It depends on
been guilty of, and a lot of different things, I guess.
too many times are permitted to go out on parole
A lot slip through the protective whatever they have to do.
there are bad ones that do slip back out and end up hurting somebody again.
They just go out and repeat their crimes.
they say after three offenses its automatically life in prison,
I think they ought to make it two offenses.
I always thought wrong,
it seems sometimes that like somebody who is stealing a loaf of bread to feed his family got more jail sentence than somebody maybe that killed somebody.
It seemed like not a good,
the balance isn't right.
It doesn't make sense.
very true.
here again now, there is where race seems to rear its ugly head so frequently.
Race or nationality even.
like you said, not the best system,
it's the best one we've got.
let's put up with it, I guess.
Improve it if we can, if we ever get a chance.
Sure enough.
Jean, it's been awful nice talking to you.
it's been nice talking to you, Jack,
I hope you have a real good day and week.
let's hope neither one of us ever has to run into this subject we were discussing.
I hope not.
Take care now.
You, too.
Bye bye.
are you from?
just here in Dallas.
because talked to a professor in, what was it, North Carolina, who got T I system,
he gave to all his students.
my daughter's even talked to,
I've talked to several people from North Carolina.
I was just curious.
that's true.
Have you,
People from Virginia all over. Yeah.
I talked to the professor,
I asked him about it,
I think I'm the guy that, gave it to all my students.
that's why so many people are from this college.
first, (( Eve )) .
the subject we're supposed to be talking about, let's see, is, food.
What type of foods do you cook
what would you, cook let's see, if you were giving a dinner party?
the only reason why I may know a little bit about this, is that I'm planning on having a barbecue pretty soon.
to me, that's the type of thing that I like to give in, cooking for people.
if he's cooking outside where it's cooler and, you don't have to do all that much work. you just, slap on some food and slap on some barbecue sauce and away you go.
We have them too,
trying to think which is the, best, that I prefer.
my wife, doesn't like to have all that work on the very day that you're doing it,
we haven't catered out very much,
always worry about the barbecue in that you have to be,
the man always gets that chore,
have to make it perfect.
I've made shish kabob, which I like.
It's fairly easy and fast.
where ,
I guess I'm thinking of the easy thing to do
having, dinner.
I do cook,
I'm mostly the easy cooker.
the breakfasts and,
and the steaks,
Although I would like to experiment with, the meals my mother made,
So to speak,
I haven't gotten around to that yet,
What kind of meals did she make that you liked?
she was Polish
she would make very economical meals.
We were very poor.
Different rice and ham and things that,
she would throw things together
and (( galunkies )) and all that.
I would like to try that one day.
she would make spaghetti with pork chops special meat balls and everything.
my wife,
of course, thinks I'm crazy, which I may be too
Sounds interesting, huh.
that's great.
dinner parties are a lot of work,
why I like outdoor stuff a,
a lot better.
People can entertain themselves, I think, a great deal more, when you have a barbecue. Especially when you have hot dogs and hamburgers and,
nothing really fancy, like shish kabobs, where you have to do a whole bunch of work.
shish kabob is, just because it only takes a few minutes to cook,
you get it ready,
you have to do a lot of work beforehand, I agree, and buy special stuff.
far as getting out there putting it on, it only takes few minutes,
thinking of the easy way, rather than,
my guests, I guess,
think you a lot of work.
Even if people do bring over things, you still do, all the,
housework and get prepared and utensils and everything.
my mother used to make an Armenian rice dish.
I'm thinking about, special dishes,
it was made out of rice and consume soup, and bacon and onions.
you'd simmer it all day long.
it would,
You'd get the odor of it, yeah.
something that I would really like try and find the recipe for.
we used to have that at Thanksgiving time.
Because put it on top of the stove, and do this,
there's so much broth and juice in there,
that it has to, soak up into the rice, all day long, in order for it come out fluffy nice.
that was,
when you were talking about Polish dishes, some goulashes and things like that.
what I thought about, was that Armenian rice dish.
we probably ought to try this.
it probably will never taste as good as we remembered.
I guess it gets better and better as we remember it,
That's true.
back, as we get older,
That's true.
we probably should try it, to do that.
The recipes are really interesting,
We're probably going to lose them
we'll probably forget all about them,
Since we're trying to make everything so sim ,
here I am talk about trying to make everything easy,
you talked about Thanksgiving, there are interesting meals at different times.
something, s ,
my wife's from Texas,
I remember we were first married
we were living in New Jersey.
we were going over to my mother's house for Christmas, to have a meal.
we were on the way over,
we were just married that very year,
she said, I'm looking forward to a nice turkey.
I said, Turkey?
I said, We don't have turkey at Christmas .
I said, We only have turkey on Thanksgiving.
I said, We're going to have a ham.
She said, What?
I said, Yeah.
I said, No, turkey is only for Thanksgiving.
she had turkey a lot,
that was surprising east,
we always had ham,
A ,
that's one thing als ,
that's another recipe, I guess, we could talk about.
the hams just kind of, go take it out of a can or, a package, sliced,
the cans were cooked for hours and hours
were just wonderful,
like to try that too.
You know what I found was, at Sam's, Wholesale
what they have is this honey baked ham,
I saw them.
That's good.
had any of those?
I've, I know about Sam's.
My wife I think goes
you ever get a chance to buy one of those, I think it was, twenty dollars, for, I don't remember how many pounds it was.
you cook it in the bag that they send it in.
all the juices and everything are all sealed in.
I tell you what, never failed to come out tender and juicy,
I haven't heard
and just
of that, yeah.
and just delicious. Because I normally don't like ham, because it's so salty.
with this honey bake that they have, the only one I have been able to find there at Sam's warehouse.
It is absolutely delicious.
I'll have to ask her about that.
it slices great. huh.
because we have a delivery guy that comes around, that sells,
I'm trying to think of his name of it.
I don't know,
I see a can here, a box here of Gourmet Choice.
he delivers,
What is the name of this thing?
I got a box, (( )) distributor, marked on it,
it doesn't say, Gourmet Choices.
it's a company that has, a truck that comes around.
they recently had hams.
They have steaks and,
and, pirogies and all that stuff that,
wish I could tell you the name of the company,
I don't know what it is.
they recently had a ham, that was supposed to be,
it was boneless
we tried it.
It was real nice,
it was fully cooked and everything.
We had it
for breakfast a long time.
It was really great.
that sounds like it.
the only ham I have found that I thoroughly, thoroughly enjoy.
I would like to try the old recipe though, of cooking it,
I keep saying this, do the different things that we did.
I would like to put one in the oven, the old fashioned way and put it in there for hours and hours, and see if,
I don't think my married life, which is, twenty six years now, we've never done that,
I remember that when I was a kid,
to have the ham cooking. rather than that, we just,
ham is just something you have for breakfast occasionally,
Right .
that's it,
In the old days, hams were the meal,
think we,
really have it as a main meal.
That's true.
don't think so anymore, not with more, becoming more conscious of, fat and cholesterol all those
good things.
That's an interesting point.
have you changed meals now?
Have you,
into that,
looking at those things?
my parents actually started it,
Parents, that's unusual.
I think my parents are very unusual because, we grew up in the south, where, you have all the, biscuits and gravy
and, fried foods galore.
gradually they started switching over to, plain rice, no gravy.
That's amazing.
really is.
led us through it, versus, us teaching them, finer points.
my mother has really high cholesterol,
it was
one of the reasons which started them off.
they started doing this, like the middle seventies.
that's amazing,
they'd go,
that they have started.
Usually it's the younger people doing it.
It's true,
it's true.
I agree with you.
it's really neat.
wife's mother is the only grandparent left,
she has high cholesterol.
Of course, too, but not like hers.
I always get after her about salt and everything else.
she just will, she's going to eat the same way she ate,
That's right.
her whole life.
she just tells, more or less tells me to shut up,
Right .
I like to,
I'm trying to do something about my cholesterol in the same way.
not the (( ))
. I listen to, Larry (( Newarth )) on the weekend.
He's a fitness expert
he talks about, the chicken and the rice
and everything else.
throwing away peanut butter and all the things ,
the things not to eat, ever.
I think the peanut butter and mayonnaise he would throw away for ever.
he's got me into making eggs without the yolk.
try that sometime.
My wife says she can't stand it.
when I make scrambled eggs now, talking about a recipe,
if I have four eggs, for me,
if I'm making four eggs, even for my daughter take out all the yolks but one.
it's fine.
don't miss it,
In fact, make eggs for myself, fry them, throw them in there, I will almost hard fry them so I can not eat the yolk at all.
you don't really miss it.
You get the flavor of the yolk,
you don't eat it at all,
You don't,
they're hard.
You get a bite the
for cholesterol, I'm trying that.
it has worked.
My cholesterol gone down twenty points.
Wow, that's good.
I haven't gotten on the, butter or margarine and all that.
I don't whether any of that is true, .
Whether the margarines or butter,
What can we do about crime?
I don't know.
The one thing that keeps coming to mind to me is that don't have enough space in the prisons to put people
they keep letting out people that have, these horrible records.
maybe we need to have more prisons or use the old army bases and make them into prisons or something.
That's one thing I guess I could think of .
it's definitely a big concern,
every day it's, all ar ,
we live in a little small town,
there's just rapes and murders and burglaries and everything all the time.
you just can't get away from it no matter where you live.
it's pretty scary.
from Butler,
I can't say that there's too much of that there.
I know the bigger cities have problems with it.
I really don't know what we can do about it.
It's rough, because ,
they start enforcing the,
start giving more people death sentences.
That's the only thing I can think of.
even some of the sentences just seem ridiculous.
you hear about people, six and seven times have committed burglaries
they're still, only serving six months in prison.
that's definitely something.
They could have a more automatic sentence instead of having the judge having the choice of like, from one month to ten years or something .
That would be one thing that, I think could help is having the laws be changed so that they were more stiff penalties and more automatic penalties, for certain crimes .
I don't know what they're going to do with the problem because it just keeps getting worse and worse.
one things that they're saying, now,
are you going,
are you a student
are you in the work force
I'm a senior at Clarion University.
one of the things that I've heard so much about is the situations on campus where crime has gone up so much.
apparently perpetrators seem to be getting off because the universities kind of cover up.
they don't really,
not only that, a lot of them's not even turned in.
You know,
what I mean?
A lot of times
the girls don't even report it.
I've heard of a few case up here,
I can't say that I've heard of, any significant amount.
then again you don't know how many girls are reporting them or not.
They say like only one in ten are reported.
I believe it.
That's awful.
one thing they could do is probably support people more reporting it.
I know some police agencies try to have women police officers that the women can report to and this kind of thing.
I'm sure it's still terribly traumatizing, for people to report it.
that's probably something else they could do.
I don't know,
it seems like something else in terms of crime is certainly involved with drugs,
that's like as long as,
it almost makes me feel, in a way, like making drugs legalized just to get all the money out of it and not have,
these kids are saying why should I go to high school
I can go out and work at Burger King, for four dollars an hour or whatever, when I can make four hundred dollars a day selling drugs.
that's certainly a big problem.
I don't know what the solution to that is.
Having more drug treatment centers available.
Jeez, I don't know.
you see now I would say that that's a bigger problem up here than even the date rape or anything.
I know a lot of people that partake in that.
I'm not saying they're bad people,
I would say that's a bigger problem.
it ends up,
even if it's just kind of like this social drug use, you're still ending up supporting these big drug pin,
huge amounts, thousand and millions and millions of dollars are getting spent, on higher and higher up,
on drugs,
it's definitely got to do with crime.
you hear about people selling their babies, to get some crack.
gosh, horrible stuff like that.
One of the things they're doing they're prosecuting the women who are having these kids that are addicted to crack.
They said, some of the show like one out of every ten babies being born in these public hospitals are addicted to crack,
their moms are crack users.
that's, another way of looking at it is as the woman is being a criminal, for doing that to her child.
I don't know who's the victim there.
the kids are the victim, it seems like a lot of times the women are victims because they're addicted.
it's a very complicated problem.
I don't envy the government trying to cope with it. Gosh.
No, I don't either.
I guess that's about all I have to say.
Is there anything else you would want to,
I can't say that just know that it's really bad in some areas
something's going to have to be done sooner
know what they can do.
It's frustrating.
It was nice talking to you.
thanks for talking.
Have a good day.
You too.
Bye, bye.
basically I'm at home
I have two cats
and my husband,
my husband's great.
It's wonderful,
I'm about forty and whatever,
. Around there,
just a youngster then .
I'm just a
I passed the fifty.
spring chicken, I guess .
I guess our topic's going to be changes in the women's roles,
it should be real interesting.
Righto .
you think we're ready?
I think I'm ready .
you want to start off?
let's see,
the changes I've seen in women's roles,
since I am in the forty age, I'm a fifties baby
from my mother's generation to my generation it's been a big change.
Very much, yeah,
Very much,
I think you'll have to agree
since we were in, sort of the ground level, the bra burning of the sixties,
we didn't really know what the agenda was going to be
I think, it got off to a really radical,
it has a radical fringe to it that, I've sort of backed away from.
I think all things get started sometimes in that manner.
they come in that way.
to make a change, you have to make a splash.
to continue in that vein, I think it got a little bit warped and off the track
in several areas,
I really do think that women have made a contribution
to human beings, to be human and what it's like and have feelings and emotions
it's okay
I think, on the other hand, I don't know that men have changed that much.
contrast to the women's changes, the men stay steady,
the women change around them.
I hadn't thought much about that,
that is true.
I think men are trying.
Some of them.
they don't have a national organization of men,
to, help them out
what's changing them, though, is the economic situation,
where both
Very much.
team, it has to be a team partnership now,
they both have to work
they both have to raise the children,
if we're going to have any kind of future at all,
that, I think has been the downfall of the last ten years.
the me,
I don't know,
the whatever it was, the, women didn't know how to go about doing the careers
they wanted to compete with men,
they wanted to be like men,
that's wrong.
I think they finally discovered that they don't want to be like
hurt themselves a little bit in that way.
they sort of threw the thing back another, ten years,
that they've had to, restructure,
I saw the greatest T shirt the other day,
I got to get some for all my men friends,
it says, let men run the world, women have more important things to do .
There you go .
There's a lot of truth in that.
I think men and women both have assets to offer
we shouldn't,
we were made differently,
That's right.
however you come to that conclusion,
we were biologically, physiologically, made differently
there is great wonderment,
in that,
we should respect that in each other
it shouldn't be destroyed.
just sort of all into one channel
sort of thing,
viva la difference ,
someone said that
I think that you can truly respect the other person,
Tom is just always saying, what a mystery you are, ,
that's kind of makes it exciting.
that depends on what day of the month it is.
I don't know,
I guess we've gotten more of a,
terms of that, I think we've got more of a sense of humor about each other
and our roles,
it's still a challenge being in a marriage and trying to figure out those roles
I think now when both are working they have a of a chance of working together because they're starting out that way.
a very different way to do,
the woman doesn't start off at home,
raising the kids and goes back into her career,
twenty years later.
Because you get set in your ways
You do.
really hard really to get help.
to get the work load shared.
you married?
Do you have children?
have five children,
they're ,
my goodness.
They're all grown and on their own
How did you do?
how do you mean that? .
did you have boys, girls,
how did,
we have, two girls and three boys
our baby girl just had a baby girl .
Last week was her first baby.
how exiting.
it's been real exciting.
tell you what.
I don't know what I would do without my friends having all their kids.
I just love the babies
since I'm sort of in a medical situation where I can't do that, it's,
Have you been that way long?
Just eight years,
Just eight years.
the most important years of my life .
a long eight years, though.
it has been.
there have been major, major adjustments,
that's another story.
my husband has really, really filled in the gaps,
That makes a big difference.
I couldn't ask for a better life.
if this is the way it had to be,
this is the best way,
I could possibly do it
that has a lot to do with his strength and his, just pitching in his being able to, all, all ego aside, do a lot of things
that really,
when I say men haven't changed I guess I should look at my own backyard sort,
of thing
probably your role
the way you are also has changed, though.
compared to what it would have been twenty, fifty years ago.
that's true.
would have had so,
I had so much guilt to begin with
the changes that had to take place,
where I couldn't do a lot of things
and, just adjusting to that,
was a major change,
I guess , in the end, you each take your own situation deal with it the best you can,
The best you can, yeah.
women I think are a whole, sort of riding the course,
got a little wobbly and a little shaky there,
I think the future of this whole thing is going to be what happens with the day care situation.
that's the only thing I worry about is child's love and security.
I think that's being damaged,
I think,
a lot.
we're going to see a generation of kids that, are just going to be a little bit, not very nurturing.
I think,
I do, too.
women do both.
They're very capable of working
I wish they weren't so many,
wish they weren't role models for everybody,
because it's so dangerous.
really is, yeah.
It's dangerous for the woman, too, to think that she can do that
when she can't, the failure of that is,
her life sort of falls apart
she doesn't know who she is
many have to work to make a go of it, it seems,
they say they do anyways,
I think ones that don't have to, the,
it's not as much of a stigma not to work as it was for a while there.
really, I think it depends on what part of the country you're in.
that could be.
would almost just say that because, down here in the south
a woman's role is,
a woman's role,
sort of thing,
You (( mean )) it's stronger there?
Much stronger.
I think that, career women still have a lot of problems here,
with the good old boys,
here in Texas sort of thing,
making career moves
in terms of women staying home and being appreciated for their talents, it's just like the way has been for years.
since the days of the pioneers, around here.
That's the woman's role,
hard for her to, (( watch )) her peers be appreciated, I think sometimes,
then I'm not there,
I don't know that.
I have women that do both
I see a little jealousy on the part of, the woman what has two little boys
she has an au pair, which is a live in college kid working for her
she has her business in the back
my other girlfriend that has, just runs the whole household herself and just has two kids and goes crazy,
all the time.
I see I little bit of that
I always wish there was a balance,
with the one wish she could spend more time with her kids
the other gal I wish she could just get out of Dodge,
for a while .
they're both,
Get some peace and quiet.
they're both different people, too.
You're right about that.
That's where the trouble lies.
can adjust and have both, do both well,
others can't.
That's true.
That's so true.
did your daughter do it?
I have one daughter that works full time.
She has two little boys.
they seem to do fine.
She about quitting, and staying home for a few years.
then, it's real hard because she's got an excellent job.
Go ahead.
Ken, how do you do your family budget?
we don't actually have a per se.
What we do is, maintain a normal checkbook. like,
everyone in the world does, I guess,
occasionally it actually balances, .
we have U S Air and Visa card.
dollar we, every dollar we charge is a mile for our frequent flier mileage.
It's a real good deal actually, if you charge a lot.
my wife and I have taken to doing is charging everything in sight.
Anything we buy, we charge, including groceries and so forth.
what we'll do is,
then you just pay it off at the end of the month?
We actually maintain a,
we, we have a checking account that we treat like a savings,
scratch that,
we have a savings account that we treat like a checking account.
what we do is, anytime we do or make or charge something, we write it out as if we wrote a check.
at the end of the month all the money to (( )) covered already.
we just pay it off without having to worry about any interest or anything.
That's a real good idea.
It keeps us hopping.
I'd never get my wife to be able to follow that.
Before we got married I had money in the bank.
I owned my own home.
I put in so much money, each, month towards long term savings, like in, mutual funds and things,
after I got married,
it just didn't work anymore.
She spends a lot.
She likes to spend on anything and everything . With body lotion, everything .
a good organized system, yet.
Maybe after awhile I'll rub off on her or something .
I don't think,
what's always good is sort of a (( for savings )) , where they just take money out of you're pay.
We did that for awhile where,
we actually still do it my wife's salary,
where account even, a savings account an entirely different bank
where what we do is take money out of her paycheck every week.
I'm a graduate student.
So am I.
In what field?
in information systems.
I'm a voice researcher.
I'm in, psycholinguistics,
my wife has a real job.
So does mine.
. What we do is, we take money paycheck each week.
goes directly to another account, have access to so easily,
it goes there
it stays there
it builds up until we need it for something.
I think we might have to do that .
Of course, she looks at what she brings home each week.
It's going to be hard for her to, not have her own money. Because, like now, I put money in the bank and saved to go back to graduate school for two years.
now she wants to go back to school,
she saved enough maybe to get her through August.
that's it.
I keep saying, now, Laura, you're going to have to save a little money.
I don't know if my paltry graduate student fees are going to get us through.
It doesn't work, Ken .
My mother always said, "now, don't argue about money",
we don't.
there goes my savings .
it's one of those things.
I got lucky.
My wife apparently is not a,
she likes to spend,
she's pretty good about things.
my wife will do things like make clothes.
big investments that, I was wholeheartedly in favor of, was to buy a sewing machine. Because she makes clothes.
a descent sewing machine will really help her out
she's already made, presents and gifts and things for,
(( That was great )) .
shorts for me and things for the summer.
I guess I can't, we've probably almost paid off the sewing with,
With the money savings there.
with the savings from that.
I can't complain too much,
good about that.
also, dine at home a lot.
she likes to cook.
that saves us from restaurants or whatever
That's good.
she does have things where she likes to pamper herself that just to me seem like money dumped down a drain.
I guess we all have those feelings.
I, I go to,
I pay what I think is a lot of money to go to a karate class,
you need a hobby.
that to her is sort of like a waste.
That's true.
she does her nails.
I know,
those nails are so expensive
I was so excited when she decided she wasn't going to do her nails anymore.
I guess she just stopped polishing them because they were yellow.
she waits for them to get their color back.
she'll polish them again.
I don't know, whatever.
she stopped for awhile.
Boy, what a difference.
They buy nail polish every two weeks,
, my gosh,
And lotion, my goodness, body lotion,
we spend more on body lotions with sesame oil and all these different things, than,
must spend more on one application of body lotion than I do on soap for an entire year.
. Good old Ivory .
It's funny.
it's for your benefit though, right.
I think so,
she's always soft.
That's true.
(( )) , that's helpful.
I think,
I don't know,
maybe after we're not in school anymore, we'll be much better at saving.
I think,
I think that's,
do you still own a house?
You said you owned one.
I sold my house.
that's what's really paying for my time unemployed or whatever.
That's great.
Because living expenses.
we actually live in two different places right now because she has her job.
that makes it hard with,
we're paying double rent, double utilities,
that makes it sort of expensive
I live within my,
(( )) .
I live within my income
she doesn't .
She doesn't live within her professional income,
I just get a,
that's the killer, two apartments,
even if we want to see each other on weekends, it's twenty five, thirty dollars in gas, every weekend,
that really adds up too,
it gets tough,
I think, we'll, do much better when we're living together and we're only paying one rent and one telephone.
it will cut our telephone bills,
Eventually, right.
you're not going to,
if she's here,
it's actually tough this year,
it will be better in June.
She will move in with me in June,
hopefully our budget will in increase then.
Have you been married for long?
Just since December.
you guys really are newlyweds.
We're, very newlyweds,
that's the,
together probably for, very close for about six months before we got married.
we lived within,
though I had my own house and things, pretty close.
I knew her spending habits
they're about the same ,
they haven't changed at all,
My mother always said to me, "Tom, now, the best thing to do is be like you're father.
Never say a word when you're wife spends money".
I was like, that's true my dad never said a word,
I actually encourage my wife to spend money sometimes.
Because sort of feel guilty, given that she makes twice as much as I do.
I say if she wants to go out and buy something, I never argue with her, because she's real good at, sort of (( )) .
I don't argue with her,
I just get all,
it must show in my face.
cringes or something,
especially yesterday or this past weekend.
We met half way between, at her parents house
she had on a new pair of jeans
she'd gotten all new underwear,
I was like, Laura.
How did you get all this stuff?
. "Well, I just got paid."
I was like, oh.
Had some money in her pocket, yeah.
It was there.
It was burning.
It had to be spent.
I'm like
she said everything was on sale.
that's good,
at least it was on sale .
That's good honey,
I'm glad you bought it on sale .
What else can you say?
That's right.
I do recommend the (( for savings )) bit.
I think,
they take it out or your paycheck before you see it because it doesn't hurt.
You don't notice it.
I think that's probably a really good idea.
you don't even think about it if it's gone.
until you really need it
you realize, you've got a couple of thousand dollars built up someplace else.
I was,
living alone and I had my own house and things, I was paid twice a month,
one paycheck went into savings
one went into the checking account that paid the mortgage,
and the food bills
I was even able accumulate some savings in a sense in the checking account, because I'm pretty thrifty
my wife likes to spend.
She enjoys,
that's fine .
(( for savings )) , I'll have to look into that.
been our godsend,
We've had some sort of major emergencies come up, where,
we also own our own house,
we had an ice storm up here,
recently, where
half the city (( owned )) trees (( )) .
One third of all vegetation in this county is just wiped out.
really, because of the heavy ice.
It broke the limbs.
We had to (( )) our backyard tremendous willow tree that just fortunately,
it cost us, a couple of hundred dollars just to bring the tree down.
just to take off what was broken.
Plus, we went with a friend,
they said
the whole ice storm cost us quite a bit of money, even though insurance picked up some of it,
still, not all of it.
They don't get,
we had a car expense that same week.
One of the cars died,
All of this adds up
that (( for savings )) really comes in handy.
I can see that.
I can that,
I keep trying to say to her, Laura don't spend so much.
What happens if something happens to a car,
nothing will happen.
All right,
what type of things would you fix if you're having company come over?
I have a really great one that I make in the summertime because it's cool
just really pretty easy.
It's pretty much dumping things in and stirring.
I like that.
the only thing you have to do is cook the rice that goes it
supposed to do chicken,
I just use those little cans of chicken.
it makes it so much easier,
you dump the rice,
you dump the chicken
you put in fruit like pineapple and mandarin oranges and grape,
now grapes are the ones that you have to pull all that off,
I get my kids to do that,
Oh .
don't have to do that.
it really,
you mix it all up with ye ,
there's a little dressing that goes in it that you have to stir up,
it's so simple
it tastes really good because it's cool in the summertime.
You serve it cold?
that sounds good.
it has to sit in the fridge over night,
it's really good.
I like that one.
Usually when we entertain we do something really simple, because I like to visit with my company,
and not be scurrying around in the kitchen,
a lot of times, we'll barbecue
like, for Memorial Day we had some friends over
we just bought a brisket and marinated it overnight in one of those Adolph's meat marinate,
and put it on the smoker and cooked it.
that sounds good.
it was real good.
You can buy a fairly cheap piece of meat that way
people think they're eating steak or something .
. these days that helps, doesn't it?
It really does.
I know what you mean.
I don't usually just pass on any recipe that's got more than five or six steps to it because I just know I'll never take the time to do it.
Now spaghetti's such an easy one.
I do that a lot.
I do spaghetti a lot.
it seems like most people like spaghetti.
I don't like to do that it's though.
I don't know,
I have a real thing about being hot summertime.
I guess.
I think when you heat your kitchen up it really makes a big difference,
in your whole house.
I think that's right.
we don't entertain that often,
when we do, I'm like you. I like it to be fast and easy.
And something so that we can talk and not
and not have to worry about being in the kitchen all the time.
we don't entertain people from work or stuff often.
It's usually friends from church and stuff,
it's usually kind of like, you want to come over, and they say what can we bring.
it's real easy because you just make one or two things
everybody else brings something.
That's exactly like us, from our church, we just do it,
It's a lot more relaxing.
I don't know if I could take the pressure of having to put on this really fancy dinner for someone.
you see all that on T V
I could never be that person.
pretty laid back.
w ,
a lady in my church
she does her own bread and does her own stuff
when she, does food, she really goes all out
I don't know how she can do it and be calm .
I guess,
Do you work?
I don't.
Do you stay home with kids?
been working,
we're going to have a baby this summer,
I'm not going to work anymore.
how exciting.
hopefully, I think I'll enjoy cooking more, when I don't have to work all day.
I don't like to come home and stand in the kitchen and spend an hour fixing something and then have to clean it up
by then it's eight thirty or nine o'clock at night,
I usually start about six and cook and then eat at seven.
at five and eat at six, rather.
Eat at six, yeah.
my family and I, we're a sit down together family.
that's good.
I don't like the run in and out part.
I like to be able to sit down after school and have them talk with me my husband about what's happened
that's neat.
I think that was ingrained in me during my family time at home.
we could learn to talk about things
I think that's good.
that really is.
It keeps the family in touch with what's going on with each other.
I think,
Right now we eat in front of the T V
since it's just the two of us, it's ,
that happens to us sometimes too.
sometimes if something, is on that they want to watch I leave it on,
we eat in the kitchen
their heads are always poking past the door.
to see what's happening.
food a real life style kind of thing
some people don't like to do this
I like to with my kids.
if they're going to have other kids over then, then they help.
we make real simple things, those,
know if you've ever made them, maybe not since you don't have kids yet, but those Jell O, gelatin things you can pick up with your fingers, I can't think of what they call it.
I've seen those in the magazines.
they're so simple.
the kids love to do that.
finger food a biggie with them.
now one thing I wish I could find better way to do are celery sticks and carrot sticks, because they love to do that
it's just really hard
if you have to work with a knife, I don't like that.
they like to eat it,
it's a hard one to have prepare.
(( )) .
they like that with cool ranch dressing that goes along with that.
we like that.
way to get kids to eat vegetables too.
My son's getting to be real good cook
sometimes he fixes me breakfast .
wow, that's great .
I like it,
I like it a lot.
How old is he?
He's eleven.
that's good.
hi ,
Do every morning
not every morning,
mostly during the summer it's hit and miss
we usually have cold cereal or something like that.
when they're in school, then I try to vary it so that we only eat that week or something and then have when it's really cold, I even cook oatmeal,
Because I like oatmeal
they like it all right.
sometimes we do something,
it has to be fast because they're on their way to school,
we do Eggo waffles and stuff like that,
I try to,
sometimes we do eggs if I get up early enough to do that.
I used to do them in the microwave,
they don't like that.
do they get rubbery,
I've never tried it.
If you let them cook too long
then they'll turn a little bit gray.
You can tell if they've gone to long because they'll turn a little bit gray
they will be a little harder,
I don't like that.
you have to just let it cook a little bit less than what it says in, if you have a microwave book,
you cook it a little bit less and then let it sit with plate over the top.
let it steam.
stir it up.
that turns out okay.
it's funny 'cause if I turn them out a plate, for them to take what they want,
they don't know I've ever done it in a microwave.
It's really funny,
it's very deceiving, 'cause if they see it with their eyes they go, I don't want that,
yet if they don't ever see it, it's like, this tastes okay,
We had,
my grandmother used to do that to us with things like squash.
Everybody would say we don't like squash, we won't eat squash,
she would make these fancy casseroles and hide it in there,
we'd go, this is really good.
, it's not such a bad idea to think about judges, taking the idea of, sentencing their hands versus, the jury, especially if it's a highly publicized case such as, you've got cases right now that are going on that everybody's very well informed of or have read, certain, things in regards to cases like the Dahlmer case in Milwaukee and stuff.
may be an idea to think about, cost.
Trying to find a jury
so you can get a jury as far as, they may say they're not biased,
deep down they are this person or whatever,
I don't think it's such a bad idea to think about.
a judge would be more consistent from one case to the next and not
not de , not depend so much emotions of a particular case, but be able to put it in overall perspective.
certainly haven't thought much about this
Catches you off guard, doesn't it? .
some of them don't,
this one,
I was trying to remember back.
It seems to me when I studied civics in
school or stuff, that juries being involved in the sentencing so much.
trying to figure out whether I'm remembering wrong or whether that's
I didn't think they
by state.
were either.
I thought the sentencing was done by the judge.
it's either guilty or not guilty.
I don't know whether it's by state or whether there's been some
court decision perhaps that said that, that, as part of the trial by the peers that had to include the sentencing or
too, or whatever.
certainly wouldn't be, worried about that.
I guess in terms of a judge do it would seem to me to be fair and
in terms of doing away unanimous jury, I, would be a little more leery of that kind of a change the trial system.
just tradition to be a unanimous
that, I don't know draw the line anywhere else.
two thirds or three fourths or whatever.
I certainly wouldn't feel comfortable with bare majority.
That's kind of how I,
in certain cases I can see them going, just basically with a judge, guilty or not guilty
simply from a judge in highly publicized cases versus the small, maybe, you did a crime that was, burglary or whatever
it goes into the court case or whatever
it's not highly publicized.
when you get into these highly publicized cases where everybody knows details whether it's through the NATIONAL ENQUIRER
or whatever.
it's the idea that person might initially have this thought, jeez this person's guilty no matter what.
I'm not going to listen to the facts
con their way into, getting past the lawyers and getting through that.
also there's aspect of cost
not quite sure how much cost it does take for, the judicial system to try and call a jury, whether it's very costly, or if it's something that's not costly or what.
being that I'm not in area I really don't know.
I wonder
if there is some big expense in trying to call a jury to trial and then having to pay whatever they have to pay if there's something that they have to pay.
I know companies have to pay for these people to be off from work. Or
at least give them the time off from work.
whether it's,
I think it's with pay.
If I remember, jury duty is with pay.
it's not,
I'm not sure necessarily required. by law that it has to be
Paid, right.
I suspect benefit of a bigger company.
there are
certainly some,
Some that may decide not to.
Some that, some that wouldn't,
I don't know if there's going to be solutions to the U S budget.
now it's in pretty disastrous shape for sure.
It's only getting worse exponentially
it seems.
There's, maybe some short term things that they can do
it hurts everybody's pocket, of course,
I know that state has, cutback, raises for a year to help, the, state financial or whatever you might want to say to get better
in a better condition.
which state is that?
State of Minnesota.
there's the potential that perhaps, the U S budget might want to take a look at it's, federal employees take a look at saying, let's freeze wages.
everybody's doing it so it isn't
like, private business has had to do it
it might have to be something that they might consider doing term.
the only other avenue that I can think of is, looking at where they're spending the money and not so much as saying, we're spending too much in that area as perhaps looking at what is costing them the money.
instance, I think you probably remember the military getting caught, with toilet seats that cost them four hundred, five hundred dollars.
it was just,
you can go to K Mart and buy them for, eight dollars or I think
six dollars or whatever for toilet seats,
it gives you a ,
I think that there's
idea that,
probably a lot of waste in defense and in government funded research in the first place.
there was, people at Stanford who were soaking the government, using millions of dollars of research money
the President to buy beach homes or whatever it was.
I think maybe more widespread
Than we think.
than we'd like to have think.
then it's something that's hard to enforce too I'm sure.
It sure is.
The, as far as,
I think there was something with the government official that went on conferences for two days
the conferences were nothing
they're getting paid for this,
it was something more than just the conferences.
They were using it as eating out,
when you think about people, taking vacations these big government officials taking (( descendants )) in congress.
The rest of them taking these vacations and using the taxpayers' money for that.
it's a real big crunch,
of course, when they get caught then guilty of course,
during that time I'm sure there's hundreds of, thousands of people that are, spending money that does not belong to them.
that's right.
I think that, politicians talk a lot about waste
I'm not sure that that's really that much of the problem.
when you look at something like the Gulf War
it cost us God knows how much. at a million dollars,
a pop for patriot missiles.
I don't think, it's ended up being,
it gave people jobs
I think it also cost, quite a bit as far as because after they're done with the war, a lot of things were no longer put to use.
it was kind of like, we'll do this during this point and time
after that
they didn't want to do it anymore.
a lot of things that are saying that they're no longer going to be doing for next wars that are coming up that they did for this one in getting rid of a lot of things.
I don't know.
it was good talking to you
Okay .
have a good evening.
All right.
You too.
Bye bye.
Bye now.
What kind of pet do you have, Gail?
I don't.
I have children .
you have children .
I have little children.
Both of my kids are under two so right now we don't have pets,
we've had lots of them in the past.
Have you?
what have you had?
we had a dog before we moved here.
we couldn't bring her with us.
We came from Colorado,
we've had hamsters and fish and birds.
(( Okay,
I've )) ,
you're going to have lots of pets with your children growing up.
we had Schnauzer that we lost this summer,
he was fourteen years old.
we've had two Schnauzers
before that we had all Dachshunds,
I think my husband wants another Dachshund,
we're trying to debate because our children are grown
I don't know whether we really want to be tied down to a another dog.
we do have a very loving cat that's, kind of our baby.
we like pets.
We like them around.
We have grandchildren that run through
they think we should have a dog,
that's because they have a Great Dane .
They're just huge .
were just more peaceful, (( with )) the little ones, we would definitely have a pet.
I just think it's nice to have around.
We had a cat (( )) that had kittens.
any pet that I get from now on will definitely be spayed or neutered.
I did.
That experience was awful .
I have never wanted to,
that's why we've never gotten a female, in anything.
our male cats, we had,
(( what you doing )) ?
neutered right away,
of course, doesn't know it.
He's still out partying.
I do think that maybe we'll get a female next time and just spayed,
a lot of times now when you buy them from the S P C A or
from the humane societies or whatever, their adoption includes their spaying.
Which I think is a good thing.
It just breaks my heart to see these poor little old dogs wandering the streets looking starved
you know the safety factor and stuff.
we enjoy having pets.
think they're a lot of company,
when my mother lived with us, the cat was really hers
he was kind of wild.
daughter found her and brought her to us,
that cat walked in and walked right up to my mother and jumped up and curled up in her lap.
she was the only one at first that, could really hold him, because he was really skittish.
it was like he knew
he would sleep with her,
he was a lot of company to her.
and just love her.
are usually so independent
this one he comes up
he crawls up next to my husband now,
before the dog died, we have a queen size bed and the dog would sleep on my side,
the cat would sleep on my husband's side, .
when everybody turned we all four of us turned in a row .
My husband that's one thing he hated was our cat used to sleep with us.
Our dog wasn't interested in even coming in our room,
our cat would sleep with us
he hated that.
Did he? .
He just thought that they belong,
when she'd walk on the couch along the back behind his head
he hated that.
I guess if we get another animal it probably wouldn't be a cat even though I love cats.
I think it would probably be a dog,
it would definitely be an outdoor animal.
I think that's one of the reasons our,
because as I said Schnauzer was old.
he was becoming incontinent.
then I would just have messes in the house,
I think that's one of the things that both of us are not wanting to start over with,
it was new carpeting
it really, upset me no end.
that would, Greg,
my husband's grandparents have a dog
they just,
it needs to be put to sleep
it's grandpa's dog,
he's really getting too old to take care of it.
the dog messes all over the carpet
my daughter is just nine months old
Oh .
then she crawls on the carpet
the smell
it's just really awful
one real drawback,
I guess you'll do just about anything for your pet if you love them enough .
you will.
You will.
we were trying to decide about putting him to sleep.
so old and had other problems too.
fortunately the decision was just taken away from us which made it a whole lot easier.
again going through that because animals are almost like our kids in some ways,
you grieve just as much over them when they go
as you would a child.
our son his wife and our daughter and her husband and the grandkids all say, get a dog, get a dog,
(( Little )) thing.
Be quiet,
be quiet.
I can tell my husband, deep down real ,
Brian in Plano, Texas. How are you doing today?
I'm Nancy.
How are you?
Great, Nancy.
I'm in Plano also .
You're in Plano also,
we're not too long distance today.
good to hear.
I was just talking to someone the other day from Pennsylvania.
that was good.
Utah, I've had a couple of,
that was it.
All right.
good to hear,
good to hear.
Learned about their basketball team .
Which one?
The Utah Jazz.
pretty good.
They've got some
That's what I heard.
good, some good, good players out there.
you ready for New Year's Eve?
I am.
Should we, start this so we can,
What was your name again?
Nancy, that's
I'm Brian.
Just a moment .
Okay Nancy, then I guess today's subject is benefits
in the job other than salary.
what do you feel are important to you or other people crucial benefits?
I'm a little different than other people because I don't have benefits with my job.
I'm a nurse
Oh .
I float
so that I have no benefits except higher pay
for doing that.
I find that it makes up for what I pay for insurance
make enough money by the hour to make up for that.
for some of the benefits.
it's cheaper for me to buy insurance by the month than to work staff someplace.
I have my freedom.
I can work seven days in a row and take a week off or whatever I want to do.
an excellent,
that is a benefit,
it is to me.
Most people prefer the security of nine to five,
and weekends off and
knowing that their insurance is paid and their retirement,
I'm just really not interested in
all that.
I guess that's a good point,
I do belong to large corporation
currently employed
some different things, one that you've already mentioned health insurance.
I think through our health insurance that I can get better rates group plan
as opposed to going out and getting health insurance on an individual basis because I had to do that at one time when I wasn't employed with a large corporation
that got to be somewhat expensive,
I think one of the benefits see discount.
especially if you have a family.
Then I think it makes a big difference.
one thing I do have.
If I didn't have a family, I don't think I would have, a male or individual this stage of my life,
I don't think I would have insurance,
I don't think I would go through that expense.
One other benefit that you mentioned is the flexible work hours
in my previous job, I really enjoyed because they had what was called flex schedule where I could go and I could work, nine hour days and have Friday only work four hours
I could do, work four days a week at ten hours a day and have a, three day weekend.
And my job flexible in that case.
Could you change that as you felt like it
did you have to do it the same every week?
I had to do, that, the same, for about every quarter of the year.
I was position of management I had responsibilities over people that, I needed to make my schedule, so that if I was not there I would have coverage by some other management personnel,
think that, excellent benefit
that I really enjoyed
I don't have that in my current operation,
you mentioned, flexible work schedule
what other benefits do you think are important?
I guess,
retirement, that kind of thing which I don't worry much about ,
that's true.
I just prefer to worry about today,
probably not a practical attitude
that's who I am
that's an individual thing.
our current, organization, we do have a nice retirement package
also nice thing we have in our corporation profit sharing plan where we can, participate in profits of the company. been there a while and we're vested, which means that, we have interest, in the company
that we can, get some of the benefits of either the profit high times in a sense, suffer during the low times
also, in one of my wife's, companies where she worked, they'd had a real nice profit sharing plan
some of the T V shows I like to watch are, mostly shows
for instance the one I'm looking forward tonight is TWENTY TWENTY.
I usually watch those prime time programs.
I like to watch FORTY EIGHT HOURS.
Never miss that and, sometimes PRIME TIME LIVE.
the week goes by
I don't think I ever watch anything else.
Sunday night movies, I watch those kind of things. a lot of documentary things and, what's going on and that kind of thing.
a few, favorite shows that I try not to miss.
L A LAW is one of them.
Although this year's, it's a little easier to miss than last year.
With the new cast and everything.
it's hard to follow.
I like ROSIE O'NEILL.
I've never seen that one.
THE TRIALS OF ROSIE O'NEILL with Sharon Gless.
I've seen previews for that.
It's very good.
probably very much a woman's show.
there's a new sitcom on that is, Tim Allen's, HANDYMAN.
That's not what,
HOME IMPROVEMENT.
we never miss that,
we try not to miss that.
It's hysterical, isn't it?
we think it is,
so funny.
Did you catch the Christmas? .
just part of it .
I thought it was,
it had such a good story, too.
Did you see the end of it?
the little boy, the little one was trying to decide if there was a Santa Claus.
that's right
the neighbor,
they thought it was the neighbor.
They thought it was the neighbor.
He gave the two doubting Thomases a rubber band and a paper clip.
I thought that was wonderful.
it appeared that maybe it probably wasn't the neighbor.
now I can't figure out where they've moved it.
On our, public television, they had a show at ten thirty that was a computer show.
it showed the latest, developments from all the computer companies.
I've never seen that program.
unless you're really into computers, and software, you
probably wouldn't be interested,
I don't know,
it just really gave me kind of an outlook of what was available out there.
covered everything from entertainment to spreadsheets, and then
also, the hardware.
you could see what the new developments were and what to look for
I enjoyed that.
It was just a thirty minute show with no commercials.
public television, course, doesn't have the commercials during the show
I like the FRUGAL GOURMET.
I do, too .
I do, too,
I just seem miss a lot of these programs.
I don't know why.
I just,
if I can catch them, I do. Or if I remember.
there's very few that, my life would stop if I didn't catch.
now I do,
before I go to work, I tape my soap opera.
I watch one
I watch two,
one's a half hour
one's an hour
they lead into each other.
that's the BOLD AND THE BEAUTIFUL and AS THE WORLD TURNS.
I've watched the, AS THE WORLD TURNS since I was a little girl .
that's been on for years.
it's just,
something I've done for the last probably twenty five years.
you get to come home and watch them .
I don't have anyone else at home,
I have freedom to watch
whatever I want.
every, I like information shows
I like the comedies
do like good movies.
I to H B O.
I can get some of the movies.
that's a good idea.
We did have H B O,
just canceled it last week because it seemed like it was so repetitious,
It is.
It's just,
I don't sleep a whole lot
at two o'clock in the morning, there isn't anything on regular T V
if you're up then .
you don't get good reception without cable
it doesn't
cost that much more to have one of the pay
that's primarily why I have it right now.
thought when I got my V C R, I'd probably drop it,
that was years,
Say you did, starters and bendix springs such as that on an old one.
helped my wife replace some carburetors.
Some that, she had to, label everything .
She had to label everything.
What was she driving?
It was a Cadillac.
quit making those, the (( quieter jet )) carburetor
they quit making it.
They rebuilt it
it run right again.
(( quad )) (( )) not really easy to get rebuilt just right.
what were you replacing the starters and bendix on?
a Maverick and also, a Chrysler station wagon before that.
Did you replace just the, bendix on the Chrysler station wagon or the whole starter?
I'm replacing the, two or three starters on the Chrysler.
The starters are kind of fragile.
Especially if you need a tune up.
They kept saying did, is they wore out starters.
if they start real easy, you just hit the key
it starts up
when it's properly tuned up, that starter will last for a long time.
they built that starter so it would fit every V eight and all the slant sixes that they've built in thirty five years.
They all take the exact same starter.
They'll interchange completely.
I mean completely.
One starter will fit all of them.
they've got a whole lot of torque,
to do that, they did it,
use an underdrive system,
they geared it down so the motor spins really fast
so it's got, to spin for very long,
it's kind of tough on the bushings.
Usually what goes is the bushings.
You take a little time, replace the bushings, you still got a perfectly good starter.
most places them with good enough bushings.
after you get rebuilt one, you have a tendency to go through them pretty quickly, especially if you need a tune up.
what are you driving now?
my Chrysler van
pretty maintenance free,
at the beginning of the year last year drove a Chevrolet Cavalier station wagon
it didn't give me any trouble at all.
That's good.
It was a late model,
is that Chrysler van?
It's a eighty seven.
one of the little mini vans?
Is a,
Do you like the way it rides and stuff?
rides or runs?
Rides rough?
it rough,
it runs good.
I kind of,
it took me a while to get used to a four cylinder engine.
You have to kind of wait for it, especially when you get on the highway.
right now, without getting some of the sportier models, the four cylinders aren't real peppy.
they're starting to change that out in the last couple of years, too.
You driven American cars all,
I've driven one im ,
I drove a Volkswagen Beetle for a while, about a month.
in a month I think I put, three oil coolers on it.
Go ,
every time I turned around I was having trouble with it.
Everything else I ever owned was American built. mostly older cars.
I've been a mechanic,
I my father's service station when I was about, twelve.
I've been around cars a lot, but, driven a lot of old Pontiacs.
My first three cars were, seventy model Pontiacs. A G T O and a Bonneville and a station wagon.
I had a couple of Chryslers.
Had a super B for a while with a four forty in it.
It was a lot of fun.
Not much gas mileage, though.
I don't know,
gas mileage wasn't too bad.
It got about seventeen.
till you got crazy with it.
you get the four barrel all worked up
suddenly it drops off fast,
long as you didn't spin the tires too much spend too much time with the secondaries kicked in it, it didn't do too bad on gas.
Didn't have to work too hard to move the car around.
do you think since they started with electronic ignition that it improves the way the car runs?
my last G M car was a seventy Chevy station wagon
it still had the points and condenser in it.
When I rebuilt the engine on that, about a hundred and thirty thousand on the car.
I, pulled that old points distributor out and got, an H E I put into it.
I really enjoy reading the newspaper,
we get the daily, DALLAS MORNING NEWS
I try to look at it.
If I get busy I don't get a chance to pick it up, like this week I noticed several copies
do you have time to read the paper in the morning?
not in the morning,
if the,
I have two children
if they, go out to play or something I like to keep my eye on them so I'll, maybe go outside and read the paper while they're playing or sit in a chair by the window or something.
of people don't take newspapers at all.
took the MORNING NEWS for a while,
we've been taking the TIMES HERALD for ages
dog just ran off with my shoe,
went outside, picked it up and ran off.
we switched the MORNING NEWS
we found we couldn't read enough of it
by the time I got home and had time read some,
I guess issue is, beside the newspaper, do you take any news magazines?
don't take, TIME, or NEWSWEEK or anything like that,
I do like to watch, C N N.
I have several chores and things to do,
it comes on at, nine o'clock p m
I will turn that on while I'm doing some work
I can hear the news, not have to sit right down and listen to it.
did you hear what Schwartzkopf had to say about, Pete Arnett, and, news coverage?
he didn't have too good of opinion of it,
yes I did hear that
I do try to keep that in mind that whenever you're reading a paper it usually has a particular flavor.
any, TIME magazine and even the news that,
sometimes that,
that's why I like some diversity the idea that, have TIME we take from time to time
the problem is they call up and make this deal,
we're taking that
we also hit the Garland, GARLAND DAILY NEWS,
I guess comes out sporadically, like,
twice a week or some ,
I think what's interesting is that as difficult as it is, or much as they try, they put some bias,
I had the chance to hear Tracy Rowlett speak to a group
it was interesting that they think that they're basically impartial.
people accuse them of controlling the news he says, we don't control the news we just report it is.
that that's not true, because it seems like certain newspapers always espouse certain candidates,
news stations always tell the story from a certain angle
that's why it's a good idea to get a wide variety of coverage so that you get a lot of different opinions.
You may never get the truth,
you'll have a variety to choose from.
thought that was particularly interesting in Gulf War, that there were pieces of information were apparently, leaked just as, a ploy.
Which was,
find that fascinating that,
I do, too.
Do you ever listen to the radio
I listen to K R L D, and, K L I F, the news talk radio.
I actually listen to C N N radio.
Do you know it was on radio now?
I don't.
It's on eleven ninety.
I really, have gotten out of the habit of listening to the radio from any kind of, even music
when I go to work I listen.
my husband does
it's how come he usually calls me sometimes,
and says, I just heard on the news that such and such happened, if it's something really interesting
I'll know keep an eye out for it,
I've got out of the habit of listening to the radio.
if you're around the home, though and can watch T V and read the paper, the problem that about twenty minutes of news radio, or thirty minutes is
they start repeating everything.
it's kind of a,
that's what's interesting is the C N N,
I'm trying to think if it's much local.
I listen to a little of that
I listen to a little of ninety point one.
I'm inveterate switcher.
That and ninety eight point seven, I'm eclectic approach.
Do you have a particular local channel that you watch?
I watch channel five
that has to be,
that's another bias.
That has to do with the weather reporting.
I'm not sure that,
I think channel eight is probably,
I know Dave Fox,
he goes to our church
fairly new to the area
we're still shopping ,
for a favorite channel.
Channel eight when they came here thirteen, fourteen years ago, Dave Fox and Tracy Rowlett came together,
from Oklahoma City
apparently channel eight was way down
now they have turned it all around and done a pretty remarkable job
they've been some people move around
John Chriswell is, the,
don't know,
do you seem to,
can you tell much difference between the local radio, T V stations?
I really think so.
I noticed on channel eight that there's all of the, anchors, seem to be like white Anglo Saxon protestant type people
they all seem to be, fairly similar
I kind of prefer some females,
I don't recall that they have any female anchors
anchors to be different kinds of people.
I think that adds to the diversity,
I think that, I like that.
there, I know, John Wylie Price,
I don't know if you kept up,
he's been protesting,
I have
I prefer to have a little bit of variety like that because I think more likely to get,
I think he has legitimate argument.
you can,
I grew up in Alabama
have some prejudices.
from justice standpoint, because we have the option of not watching that station.
favor of affirmative action in some of the programs
I think that, in some cases this should be some real opportunity some diversity, and
and this kind of thing
I think that, Dallas, it turns out, though from what I understand, has quite good,
I occasionally go to Saint Louis.
And, there for a few days and watch the news think Dallas really does quite good news.
I think channel eight is the number one, A B C affiliate in the U S.
I think Tracy Rowlett was saying that he,
Course he pumping his own ,
all of the stations seem to be pretty good,
it's just we haven't found one that we've snuggled into.
Where'd you move from?
we had favorite,
I did, have a favorite channel that I usually tuned into for local news.
I guess because you get use to, you like the anchors,
you feel comfortable with them
It is interesting though,
it becomes a little of personality.
In fact, guy that was on, the weatherman on channel eight worked for me, long time ago,
twenty years or so, even longer than that. Twenty one, twenty three years ago or so, twenty four, long time ago
shortly after here fourteen years ago
fired him, because he was too t ,
have the personality,
and wasn't drawing the crowds
that's interesting.
what the T V stations do.
they're trying to get ratings.
That's true.
I think,
Their job.
if we remember they're out after the ratings.
That's true.
that really effects how they report the news.
it's like Dale Hansen on channel eight little too cutesy
Is he the sports,
I wonder if we're coming up on ten minutes.
on the conversation when they beeped you at ten minutes?
I guess it is time to close now, so I can run go help put the kids to bed.
good talking to you.
Bye bye.
you a T I er?
I work there as a temporary.
are you at T I?
you have to do the random drug testing.
In fact with me, much to talk about,
I'm so much for it.
I don't really have much to comment about it.
There've been some interesting subject that they've called about.
How many times have you called,
have you been participating in this?
about ten or eleven calls.
you got ten,
passed me up.
This is about six times.
As contract person we have to do random drug testing, too.
It doesn't bother me.
I don't feel like it's really a violation of privacy or anything.
I think it's good.
In fact, I don't know what the statistics were,
I think that they were surprised to find it so low.
I think they were expecting to find, the national average at T I.
I think it was tremendously down.
As far as the number of drug users, you mean?
as far as the number of people they actually found that were drug users.
I think that when I was at T I of course, we had all the information before they started.
they said that a certain number of people that the heavy drug users would either quit or go in rehabilitation programs.
I think that's what helps, that in the warning that you have a drug program, the people that are worried about it or are taking drugs, actually go
usually a lot of them partake in some of the benefits of rehabilitation and everything.
that's real beneficial for the company and the employee.
our numbers have been way down.
I don't know what they were.
When I worked for the temporary agency as a permanent person,
we had,
when we sent temporaries to T I, we had to have their drug tested.
we did have a couple of cases where the person said that they hadn't used anything,
their test came back positive,
normally we didn't retest them.
there were a couple of people that we really thought that they were telling the truth
we retested them the next day,
they came back negative
the second time.
the only thing, I think, that might be a little bit of a problem.
that's a good point,
at T I had the testing, I've forgotten, seems like it's a year ago September, something like that, they told us that the agency that did it was the one that did it for the government.
of course, that's critical, just as the point that you brought up that whoever does your testing's got to be, have a lot of quality control, that they keep track of everything.
They don't make mistakes.
That would be terribly embarrassing
for someone to really come back positive
they were not.
I haven't heard of any,
I'm not in personnel or anything.
they say that there, it's almost down to zero where people come back and say they are positive and they're not.
In other words, there's very few mistakes,
that, of course, has got to be critical.
It's got to be, if you have a drug testing program,
it's got to be with a very, very good agency.
You don't just have some local group do it.
It's got to be a highly qualified agency.
not just some doctor's office somewhere.
you don't want to do that.
It's got to be a laboratory that does quality control and double check.
I think that T I is latched themselves up with an established group.
that would be good for any company that does it, and not to have just a very casual thing.
It's got to be with a, first class, totally independent agency. Not local of course.
Ours, it was in the south somewhere,
it wasn't even in Dallas, the one that did us.
Do they have a policy where they counsel people if they come back positive,
do they fire them right away.
They're not fired.
one chance to then go in a program.
You come back positive, you have one chance to go in, and go into, they have a lot of, rehabilitation, both for alcohol and for drug use,
agency where you can go for personal problems, financial or whatever.
they don't,
it's not firing first.
It's, definitely trying to encourage people to rehabilitate.
In fact, again, before you go, that's why I said, when they first started it, they had a rehabilitation program in effect that said if you worried about this and you may have taken drugs, go ahead and get rehabilitated first,
they won't say anything about it.
I think that's really good.
I know some places just fire people on the spot if they come back positive or something.
that's not right.
It's really an illness, or whatever you want to say that it is.
it's a weakness and all,
all of us have weaknesses of one kind or another.
I think that those people that have that and however they got into it,
I have children,
I always worry about classical thing that you see on T V, where the drug pushers give it to the kids for free, and get them sucked in,
they sell it to them.
You know
the classical thing is to give it away.
I always worry about my teenage daughters going to some party
they slip it to them.
I don't know,
I don't even have that much knowledge to know whether that would get them addicted or not,
That's a real worry.
some of the stories you read about cocaine, that's like people try it one time and they're addicted.
My husband is a counselor,
he works, mostly with adolescents.
you know a lot about that.
I hear a lot of horror stories about things like that.
most of the time it's they get into the wrong crowd first,
they start a drug problem.
It's usually not a one time accidental thing, I don't think.
I know,
I'm glad of that.
I have, pretty good luck, or very good luck with my daughters so far,
that's my conference call,
I have one daughter still at home.
One's at U T
one's at home, gets dozen calls a night.
I'll let you go if you want to go ahead and take that,
I don't care about that,
she'll be on the phone all night.
it seems if you watch what kind of crowd that start running around with and kind of keep up with who their friends are
that's best way to avoid trouble, from what I can gather.
Do you have children?
not yet,
we're expecting a baby
in July,
we're starting.
Fantastic experience.
I've got two, as I said, I've at U T now in Austin, and one at home,
I always say that I've learned so much more from them than I ever taught them.
It's a fantastic experience.
we're really excited about it.
one thing my husband believes is if you suspect your kids are having any kind of problems, he believes you should take your kids in for a random testing, on a Saturday morning, if they've been out at a party Friday night.
If you're not too sure what's going on, he tells parents all the time, haul them into the doctor's office and get them checked.
The key thing that I think, that we try to do, is that bring all the friends over here.
Have our house as a place where they can come at any time, so that you always see their friends
rather than make them not welcome
they're always over in someone else's house.
been lucky that our house is usually the place where the kids could come,
I think that's a really good thing to encourage.
judgments and make comments or whatever you want.
at least you see what's going on,
you always have your house welcome, then your children think that, you're cool parents and all that.
Right .
good luck with your expected baby there.
My wife in my ear,
she that they're very cheap until they get to start driving.
we have one, of course, I say, in college driving. And one going to drive this summer,
kids cost you practically nothing, because you always get so many things from your relatives and everything.
you wait until they go and get a car, insurance, that's when they get expensive.
As they get older
they cost practically nothing from one to five,
slowly but surely starts to creep up when they start to take lessons,
it's well worth it and everything.
I think it'll be neat.
great experience really.
You still there?
Yea. *
I thought I was cut off there.
(( )) .
I don't have much to say about drug testing.
I can't think of anything else to say about that either.
you've done this ten times?
Did you get the booklet on how to get the gifts and all?
I don't work for T I,
I get cash.
I didn't know what they were going to do.
They sent us a little booklet,
I just got it a week or so ago saying, so many calls will be something a prize and everything.
that great.
what kind of cash?
I've forgotten what they going to do.
Was it five dollars a call?
five dollars a call.
hope they follow through and everything.
technically we're not supposed to talk about the phone calls while we're on them
I guess we better get off.
It was good talking to you.
Bye bye now.
Wayne, I've never done any, auto repairs myself at all.
I may have screwed in a little , screw that looked like it was falling out on the door or something
I personally haven't done anything.
Maybe I've, changed blades or something
I have noticed since, I got married that my husband, he hates to do auto repairs,
he would rather do them himself to pay someone else.
I guess, he can't make himself pay someone to do the repairs when how to do it,
he'll do it.
hates the time that he takes,
he has changed, the brakes
he has done all of the tune ups
the (( )) like that
recently he changed the steering mechanism in (( the )) car.
I was really impressed with that .
We had to have it to get the car inspected,
it wouldn't pass inspection
he priced around
everyone wanted several hundred dollars for it
he thought, I can get one in a junkyard , for like fifty dollars, which he did
he did it
I guess, he's been pretty good about keeping our cars up,
your experience been like?
have a long experience with cars.
was younger, my brother had a Corvette
I bought a Corvette
when you have a Corvette you more or less do all the work
I've done everything from build the motor from bare block on up.
the same way as your husband is when it comes to my car, I hate to go pay somebody good money,
I hate to pay somebody twenty five dollars on hour for something I can do myself.
It just, to me it makes absolutely no economic sense to do that.
In fact, I, just this past weekend put new plugs in both, my car an my wife's car.
pretty much try to troubleshoot and do everything I can do myself
gotten to the point in my life, where I don't want to crawl underneath the car anymore .
That makes sense.
I don't know whether just reached a point,
real rough in the winter time.
I try to make sure that, by the time fall runs around,
Right .
that, the car's in pretty good shape enough to last through the winter
springtime I usually end up giving them, tune up and make sure that they're running well,
it's like I had the muffler go out car, shortly before it was required to go,
in Maryland they have, emission tests.
you're required to get your car and go through the emission test,
my muffler, of course, starting going bad right before I was supposed to go to the emission test,
I had to do that job,
of course, that was back in December when it's nice and cold outside .
I'm sure it was.
the thing was that I could do the job myself,
the parts cost me, roughly a hundred dollars.
if I'd taken it someplace and have it done it was going to be three hundred twenty five.
(( )) (( )) who's got that extra two and a quarter ,
I know I don't.
that's exactly the way he feels is that, he really hates to spend the time,
it takes a lot of time
thinks it's going to be two hours, it's four if, whatever, it always takes him twice as long.
then when he's finished always says, now you owe me three hundred dollars .
he thinks that he has the money he can spend on something
he hasn't given it to someone else.
he gets some satisfaction out of that although, generally I think does not look forward to or anticipate,
there's some people that enjoy tinkering around on cars.
There's a lot of people
he just isn't one of them.
don't mind it,
there was a time when I had my Corvette,
of course, I loved it,
I've got other interests now
there's a lot, other more important things I think I should be doing with my time.
I have the same problem,
you can tell him from me
it doesn't matter,
had greasy fingernails for years .
it still takes me twice as long as I think it's going to take to do the job,
I think the difference is that, when you own the car you take more care in what you're doing,
you want to make sure that it's done right and put back together right,
in the past I've had brake jobs done by someone that when I went back and looked at it some months later I'd find something drastically wrong with it,
like a spring that was put in incorrectly which could have resulted in brakes failing and me having an accident.
those kind of things,
when you have a vehicle that's being used by, other members of your family, you don't want that kind of a situation to come up.
it's very, very difficult to find a mechanic these days that you can trust.
I only have one guy that I know that I trust to work on my car.
he's about sixty miles from here.
if I have something that's really major that I can't handle or feel I don't have the time to handle, I'll take it to him to do it.
you know, that (( it's, )) , really has a bad reputation is to feel people in general feel and rightly so, I think been cheated many times,
(( huh
)) Yes.
I know once when we had a,
we usually (( )) inspection time we find out there's something wrong with our car
once the muffler needed to be changed
he had looked at him himself
we saw a commercial for fourteen or twenty dollars or something for a change
he said, that's really, really good
he went in
when they quoted him a price they really wanted fifty or something.
the car that the muffler people had, husband felt that they had damaged the muffler further,
they had punctured a big hole in it when it really could have just been patched or whatever,
since then, I don't think he's ever even seriously considered kind of job he thought he could do himself.
I know from his childhood, he says that his father always buys and restores cars just as entertainment, I guess.
Kelly growing up, felt like was a good way on Saturday's that he developed a good relationship with his father.
car repairs kind of as a way to have something that they did together,
he thought that turned out pretty good because helped him to understand and be functional now,
it helped him to have a close relationship,
that's way he looked at it.
that's probably, something that, is good for both of them.
I know that, my older son I could never get him interested in cars
I couldn't,
I just like,
you sure you're a boy,
your not interested in cars,
just would not have anything to do with them.
later on and like when he, grew up, got out of the house, got his own car, he didn't know how to do anything to it. absolutely nothing.
he couldn't even check the oil.
how uninformed he was and disinterested.
I guess there are some people out there like that,
I always thought maybe, if he took more of an interest and, what I was doing
maybe we could have communicated better.
think that's great.
it didn't always work.
like I could myself, do some things but, that I have enough responsibility that if I have someone like my father when I was living at home, and my husband, that's willing to do it, I go ahead and let them do it.
I don't feel the need to, be a feminist on that issue and say I can take care of my own things.
happy to let them the cars because I have so, many other responsibilities
I haven't tried to do a lot myself.
I trained wife in the hou , doing things,
in fact, when I, first transferred down to, Texas Instruments back in nineteen eighty seven,
when I left here, she had to change a set of plugs on the car ,
because she was up here for a month or so, after I was
it was an interesting experience for her.
she'd always assisted me and done some other things
for her to actually get in there and do it herself something, a little different.
It's a good experience,
it helps you feel, I think comfortable with your car and feel like, it's not so, scary if, your driving it and you might get stranded somewhere that you might, think, been under that hood
I know what's going on
I think it's important that everyone know, basically the darn engine works,
it helps you figure out what's wrong with it,
been out with my sister before when, her car died on the highway
I happened to be with her and managed to get her to the other side of the road because it was dark and all,
the changing roles of women, how roles changed
what do you see coming in the future.
that's not a broad enough topic .
Sounds good.
I'm ready when you are.
hold on.
Are you there?
I'm here.
my goodness,
I can't believe I did that.
hold on.
That's okay.
I don't know,
are you in your thirties,
twenty three.
then I can tell you that roles have changed.
I'm thirty eight ,
they changed quite a bit.
this was my twentieth high school reunion, in Chicago.
basically, the choices,
you probably heard that in the fifties women liked to stay home and all that.
That's kind of, the opposite of what it was in the sixties and early seventies.
It was sort of just to go protest,
just, everybody be damned and live with some one,
I know that, th ,
morals were a little bit lacking.
I know that, the early seventies, I think women were the first people make a move as far as individuals.
before that a lot of people that wanted to protest were large groups like, black people, or, just large, large groups of people,
civil rights oriented,
or race oriented rather than gender based,
the women's movement kind of brought in individual lives where you had women's movements
you had gay movements,
and just the smaller groups of people.
It did.
I think since then when a lot of the women's roles have started to change.
It did
some of the other stuff that, I think that changed it, when I first got out of college fifteen years ago, they were always saying were assertive you were a libber,
you were aggressive not assertive and independent.
in terms of the corporate community, I've seen a big change in terms of men finally being quote, unquote, used to women,
who are in, controlling positions,
I think that's good.
I think that, you can just look at home life and see, I've been talking to a lot of people education and things,
what affects the school system
I think that a big thing that effects it is that the mother is not home anymore,
like she used to be.
She used to be rock,
The mainstay,
in the house,
everyone is going out and working now, whether it be because of finances or just the economy,
and restructuring, stepfamilies,
the mother's not there anymore
the children are,
a lot of society is suffering.
Not to say that women shouldn't, go out and do what they want to do
I think that,
society's really going to have to get used to it.
they're not quite used to it yet
that's I,
or the parents,
I'm trying to think of what else.
I have a lot of opinions on this except all of a sudden I went blank .
A lot of the things, the demographics do,
there are more,
I don't have the numbers in my head right now,
a lot of the things that brought feminism, there are just more women in the demographics, just generally,
in the United States, in terms of being,
I'm the typical baby boomer,
I hate that term,
in terms of women,
women going out, twenty three, I remember that.
What's it like to be twenty three as a woman today,
when I was twenty three the issues were either go to graduate school or get married,
those were the general issues.
Speaking of getting married, I was talking to someone yesterday on this, on the project,
we were talking about child care
he asked me if I had any kids.
He was about forty or fifty years old
I said no, I'm just twenty,
He was ancient,
I said no, I'm just twenty three,
because I don't think of myself as needing to have children
the first thing he says is, don't you miss that part of your life.
I just,
mind just went,
You didn't know what you're going to be missing.
I went, what.
even occur to me right now to have children,
becau ,
I don't have any either
I've been a married for eleven years,
I think that I'll probably have children when I'm about thirty, thirty five, something like,
when it's time,
just because, I'm not sure me, women in general that are twenty three right now, because, I'm really into my career.
I'm trying to go somewhere, and,
you want to establish,
and get there quick worry about, because right now, in my career really starting out,
it's going to take me a while to move up.
I don't need anything kind of holding me back,
you'll find that that's the other big thing that has changed in terms of,
women don't feel like they need to get married anymore.
I was twenty seven when I got married
I just at the time,
my husband actually even jokes about it.
He was twenty three when we met
I was at a point where it was like, I didn't date,
I just, went out to have a good time,
I didn't have to have male companionship.
a lot of the, friends that I had in school at that point, who had gone back and gone to law school, or M B A programs,
which I also had done, they were very sad.
then by the time I got married,
it seemed like they were on their second or third around the marriage track.
I guess that's a big change in terms of, just, the attachments that women feel like they need to have, the dependency,
their self identity is stronger.
just really not there anymore.
has to do with, the women getting out and other other women,
out in the corporate world.
That's like, I can do that.
I don't know how,
I don't need to get married.
how old your mom is,
she's probably,
let's see my mother's in her early sixties,
She's, she's about forty.
I'm thirty eight,
your mother's for ,
I just turned thirty eight.
I'm laughing,
my God.
It does start to creep up.
it's okay,
don't ever let age,
I don't thi ,
nobody talks about it for women except other women and other men.
just turned twenty three,
April twentieth,
I'm still going, my God, I'm getting so old.
I just,
me, myself, I just like to move really, really quickly.
I like to,
anything I do,
I got out of school quick.
I'm working quick.
I want to move up quick.
I want to make money quick.
I want to retire quick.
when the age creeps up, where I'm twenty three and twenty four,
I'm thinking my time is running out.
I'm actually very, very young.
you are, because what I was going to say is, what you will find is, my background is in journalism and corporate communications,
what you'll find is,
I'm just now finally to a point where,
I don't know why I do it sooner,
this is probably typical of the women's movement too,
is the idea that you're going to be forty tomorrow anyway, if you want to go back to school.
I'm seriously considering going back to school for law.
which is a complete, I wouldn't say career change, a (( subway )) ,
it's still is a different application.
if you think about it, have another career.
I've worked for over fifteen years in what I've done.
when you're saying quick, I think that's probably one thing that your generation coming up after mine,
is thinking that, they have to do everyth , sort of,
a chewing syndrome.
They have to eat real fast
they have,
they have rapidity of speech,
they have to just go through everything.
you'll find that probably by the time your twenty eight, thirty, if you haven't slowed down,
something will slow you down.
Do you know what I'm saying?
it's just, you find out that you're really not, smelling the roses,
I know that sounds trite,
and all that.
a lot of, people probably feeling that way,
I know, I'm probably feeling that way because everything's geared towards young.
whether I want to realize it or not, everything on television is young,
it is.
young, young, young.
You can't be a model after thirty,
you can't do this after twenty,
That's right.
everybody that's in the music business is starting out at fifteen.
I feel like I'm old.
It's like I sing,
I sing
I would really love to become,
a professional singer,
I think I'm too old now,
you're not,
I'm twenty three,
everyone I've seen coming up, they're fifteen.
That's true
I'm going, I'm so old
I really have to always tell myself, no, you're not, you're very young.
you're extremely,
ju ,
it's like us, we're getting ready to do, if possible, for an adoption
I have friends that say why would you do that,
if you know you haven't been able to children, which we do know,
why would you do that now, at this
it's just individual choices.
I stopped comparing myself a long time ago to somebody who had,
in my family my brother's children,
he just turned forty,
his children will be out of high school before he's forty five.
that's like your mother,
look how young she is,
compared to where you are out of school and everything.
It's just, it,
what you find is you don't compare the woman, because you just get into trouble.
It's all independent and choices.
very true.
what I was going to say about mothers is, your mother probably just won't say it,
my mother and her sisters are always saying, to my cousins and I, my female cousins,
you girls are so lucky because quote, unquote, you have all these choices,
you went to school,
you can do this,
you can do that,
we couldn't do that then.
my cousins and I go, why couldn't you .
why I say really lucky right now, I'm not married and because I don't have children.
I'm out of school,
I'm twenty three,
I can do anything I want to do, anything.
even some days I'm looking for another job now,
I get so depressed I can't find a job, but because I can't figure out what I want to do.
that's normal,
I think that's the world today.
I thi ,
I'm lucky though, because not a lot of people can sit there and go gee, I don't know what to do.
I have so mu ,
that's exa ,
not a lot of people,
it's depressing too.
That's how,
that you're,
What, I'm right now.
a free lance writer right now.
what I'm doing is working at, company,
for their company newspaper,
right now on the side,
I'm also,
I'm excited, tomorrow I have a, (( luncheon )) appointment with a perspective client to do,
marketing communications for them.
news reporter, now,
you are?
what I'm looking for is something in, I really don't want to stay in news,
I would like to stay in journalism,
We ,
I've been looking for something exactly like that jus ,
Here's what you shoul ,
d ,
this is off the topic,
those people probably won , .
okay .
Did you go to Baylor by any chance?
to U T at Austin.
that's even better.
just happen to work at a Waco station, because
I went to,
you in radio, or television or news.
news, T V,
my journalism degree is in,
Are you still there?
it worked out fine.
we just ate out, had a big lunch because we both have been working late
we had Italian,
have you ever been to the Olive Garden?
I haven't,
is that good?
do you really like Italian food?
not my favorite
Then don't,
I like it's okay.
Then this will probably,
this isn't really excellent Italian food,
That sounds terrible to tell you to go somewhere where it's not that great
you're not going to believe this
I have to tell you this if I don't because you're in Plano,
That's okay.
my, softball unit here is acting like he's dying of (( tramane )) poison .
It wasn't that bad,
it's very good it's all of these (( )) run adult males,
which I'm not Italian,
all the garlic bread and all the,
salads you can eat with an entree.
that sounds really good.
it wasn't too bad it really wasn't
I was more in the mood for french toast any way
I really like Italian food though,
do you have any favorite?
are there just the two of you?
when my husband and I go out we have four children.
you're kidding.
that makes a difference.
For us when we go out with the kids obviously we want to go somewhere that we can,
the fast food ones are probably the ones they like the best.
we don't like to go there because that's the most expensive,
we like to go to a pizza place where you can buy a pizza for one price feed the whole family,
and like that.
You can usually get a variety of what you're looking for,
at Gatti's or something like that.
when my husband and I go out we like to go somewhere with a little atmosphere
we usually head on down, what's the freeway down here?
six thirty five?
freeway there are restaurant
one of our favorites is Pappasito's.
we love to go there.
We went there on my birthday in March it's great.
it always kills me cause I don't like decorations so much
it's too,
too much like a bar naturally,
and Mexico,
I know,
I've seen it.
The food is probably,
the food is great.
I'm not a I'm Mexican food gourmet by any means
it's probably the best tasting,
I don't know would you classify that as Tex Mex?
the shredded beef the type of,
spices or sauces they use.
I like to get that,
I don't remember the name of it,
it's rolled up something,
it's really good.
I've never had anything there that wasn't delicious.
they are really good.
Even though you have to stand in line and all of that, that's the only thing I don't like about it too
it's a little bit with meat market atmosphere,
Even though we don't have kids we've been married long enough to, that.
I'm trying to think of what else we like to eat.
The one thing I notice is it's just, about dining out that you probably can relate to with four children and two of us getting ready to adopt, we find prohibited,
(( just to )) cost any more?
lunch today was eighteen dollars.
it's very expensive.
I don't know how you feel about that
I think that some of it's over priced.
I'm glad I'm talking about food normally these conversations are ,
Sometimes it's hard isn't it to keep a,
it is I don't know,
sometimes Mark and I, that's my husband Mark,
go to the August Moon which is down there
it's a Chinese,
my husband likes that.
restaurant with the lions in the front,
off of Arapaho down there?
August Moon,
it's pretty good as far as Chinese,
Chinese isn't my favorite
I don't like it at all usually
he likes it kind of
he (( heats us up a good fight ))
me I'm like I said seafood I'm,
I like that.
I love seafood,
like a lot of different ethnic foods.
I like Japanese food.
There's a place on Greenville called (( Sagar's )) .
we haven't been in years down near (( Presby )) ,
I had a meeting down there today
I saw that
I said, gee I remember that they offer you, authentic Japanese feeding,
or American or piano bar,
I remember when we went ,
we were married with another couple that was just dating
I had never had saki.
It made all raw fish tastes great .
if you're looking for a very,
it's very pretty inside,
Is it?
the girls wear kimonos and,
how nice.
if you're ever looking for that.
what other kind of foods,
I don't know
we went to a place called Grishman's in Greenville,
I don't know that place.
which was really over priced.
Was it?
They had a great desert bar.
That's what we need isn't it?
there's a lot of nice barbecue places here,
I like barbecue okay, Texas barbecue.
I like,
It's good.
have you ever been to I think it's called Spring Creek Barbecue?
That's real good,
they're real good.
They are good.
There had,
my husband's going upstairs,
he says free ice cream .
free ice cream,
I didn't know they had that.
I can't talk I had chocolate bavarian tort, for desert,
today, which I never eat at lunch
it was wonderful.
Just to die for exactly.
It was,
in fact if I could pick my, restaurants on how their coffee is and how their french bread is and the butter and the desert I would be,
In heaven .
I would be in hog heaven.
how are your kids at an age where they can contribute to what they want
do you still order for them?
my two littlest,
I just had a baby,
she's six months
my four year old still,
my other older two they can.
kind of,
my littlest girl she's still wants McDonald's, McDonald's, McDonald's .
child that I even know that eats vegetables, looked five years old still after a certain age realized that there is something called a McDonald's.
I'm telling you.
It's really sad isn't it cause it's hard to get them away from junk then.
it's kind of funny is sometimes want different things,
there's a H Avenue down here,
I know where that,
and along are these fast food restaurants .
that's all,
we all get to go to our own little thing and drive through and get our own thing,
we go to park over there so we can all have our own.
that's all right as long as,
that's on the nights we can't decide.
I was going to say because with six people how do you,
cause with two we have a problem,
I can't even imagine, trying to,
you sound like you're doing pretty well with four children.
five of them, they're good,
That's the way the,
we're getting ready to
I shouldn't say this on this conversation,
it's just on my mind,
we're getting ready to go overseas to adopt.
how nice.
we're excited,
It will be neat.
I think it will be worth it
somebody said to me in terms of,
this is food so I can say this,
have to bring a formula,
I said what's that .
They laughed
I said I'm.
Food's, food.
thirty something,
(( I think that )) that would make them drool any way.
I guess are you is it a little bit of constricted, because a lot of restaurants don't take,
in terms of talking about restaurants, a lot of restaurants, how are they when you have children let alone three or four children?
You have to be careful if you go to restaurant that,
that really is more adults
with the atmosphere and everything,
if you're,
like we could probably take our oldest son and,
and our oldest daughter.
they know how to act,
I don't think I would chance it with my younger ones because they're just too much of a distraction
some restaurants are really trying to go for that atmosphere kind of thing.
That yuppie kind of crowd, yeah.
I've been in some places where they say they take children,
I've just seen where the wait attendance the wait staff is rude,
that always just bothered me
on the other hand sometimes the children or the adults are themselves .
I don't know what other kind of restaurants
really Pappasito's we love,
we went to one Italian,
back on the Italian, we went to some place across from Collin Creek Mall that absolutely putrid for Italian food.
I can't remember the name of it
it's on,
Is it Tia's, not Tia's,
that's Mexican, right across from on the Dillard's side there,
I know which one it is,
I can't think of it.
I can't,
it's in the strip, yeah,
it had white tablecloth,
I think it was paper where you could write on them, or something with crayons
it was just terrible.
I was shocked,
the dish was dirty,
It was one of these you have bad experience and,
where you felt like,
say I don't think I'll come back here.
like when you're in a bad part of Italy or something.
other then that I don't know do our share of pizza eating too, but more like go get it and carry it in cause we're too,
cheap to pay the delivery .
I don't like strange people coming to my door,
got selv ,
one of my favorites were
I can't really think of any other, places.
except that this makes me fat.
I'm just kidding.
you have to watch it if you go out to eat
that's true.
that's true,
you can always blame it on having children,
there you go.
I enjoyed talking to you,
I guess,
good luck.
Maybe we'll see you in the restaurants somewhere.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
we're just starting a family through adoption
I don't really have a lot of, concrete, opinions.
Just what I know out of my peer group, has gone through.
none of it has been good .
the ones that can afford to have live in nannies,
They seem to be having an okay time.
a lot of the other ones that have, are professional,
I'd say fifty percent of, my peers circle of friends have tried it and then stopped working until they're, going to get their children in kindergarten or first grade.
there must be some good service out there if you
really look and pay for it.
age child are you thinking in terms of?
In terms of what they're talking about.
yourselves .
Infant. ...
you're starting
After eleven years of marriage. we are.
happening now.
we're just going through the process.
I see .
the question is, very appropriate.
I'm not sure how strong the maternal instinct is going to be.
They tell me it's going to be strong .
Do you
have children?
I have one son.
did you put him in daycare
is he older now or younger
now eighteen. And has completed a couple of years of university.
he's out of daycare .
I was working full time,
when he was born.
I was very lucky because I was college professor.
I was able to,
(( Flex )) .
walking distance
my apartment.
I went up there
I sort of left him a neighbor.
I left him in a carry cot when he was very little .
I said, he doesn't need anything except, look at him if he cries.
don't pick him up
this sort of stuff.
I was gone only an hour at a stretch or an hour and a half.
that's wonderful.
I was able to, get, his schedule just, cooperated.
That's wonderful.
I guess, because of profession.
in corporate communications.
I've done free lance writing in the past,
what we're hoping is that,
my husband thinks I can do it.
I've just never worked out of a domestic base,
I've always
been in a corporate, environment.
I'm hoping that possibly I can do something where I can go flextime or part time
if they don't have that,
my boss,
I'm very lucky though, again too, my boss is very akin to family building.
I think that's that couples need in going
into this.
I don't know.
I do think there's good daycare out there.
What part of the country are you in?
I'm in Maryland.
You're in Maryland.
I was out of the country when, son was little.
the thing is, if you have this flextime and that, you might be able to do something similar to what I did.
Which is
That's what I'm hoping.
be there short times
later on when he was,
we're talking about, I went back to work taught classes a week after he was born.
my goodness.
You were
that's when I was
saying, pick him up and stuff.
then later what I did was I brought a woman into the house.
was supposed to help me a little bit with cooking and doing the baby's laundry and this sort of stuff.
I also came home and sort of was able to see from a distance what she was doing.
in a sense carried him around a lot, too much.
my taste.
It was constantly, I don't want him,
to explore anything.
hurt himself .
that was in a way though, that, that doesn't really,
that's not a correct English
(( )) ,
in a sense, you see what I'm saying though.
From a mother's standpoint, in a way, was quote and unquote good
I think it worked out very, very well.
what he learned to do by the time he was
two or so, he would sit next to the desk where I was grading papers or
writing lesson plans.
he had asked for a paper and, sort of scribble
he realized that there
were quiet times
there were active times.
that, there were times that you had to be gone, so you probably minimized,
getting ready.
you're far enough away now I can tell you since this is locally, I make sure, we're going to Romania in a few weeks.
that's, (( just )) .
Did you say Romania
R ,
or Armenia?
As in, what Twenty Twenty real excited because we've just developed a contact.
Through professional people
it's private
it's hospital.
just very excited .
i , what's the word I'm looking for.
When you deal with issues like that, in terms of family building through adoption, and then you have people responding to you, if you go through that why would you put them in daycare.
that's silly.
issues are being raised prematurely in my mind.
I guess they're not because it's something I'll have to deal with sooner than later.
learned to do is just tune out everybody's opinion.
I feel that if the child is healthy, and as long as we make it feel secure, I'd love to do something like with what you did.
I don't think I could be dumper where I could take it from, eight in the morning till nine at night or six at night and leave it there.
maybe after two or three old.
I don't know.
opinion, it's even than.
your kids need you .
they need a schedule I think.
I don't think the United States,
what country were you, in Europe when you were
I was in the Middle East.
that's .
that's the same thing.
I don't know how they are there
in eastern Europe,
my stepfather's from England,
it just seems the United States does not provide for either child care care, as I call it.
we're just not set up for that.
(( with the )) .
Go ahead.
I was just going to say, I guess, my sensitivities much more with the, to be at home.
I had
my grandmother with me ninety two until she died at ninety seven.
I think that's wonderful.
that was recently after my son, was going off.
in a sense, I went to work
she was at home alone some of the time.
still, it was much better than being shipped to
a daycare center.
which is much my feelings on kids and the elderly.
I think much towards it's somebody
We cast off.
Th ,
I'm that way.
I want to work.
Shove them some school for twelve hours a day.
It's easier
I agree with that.
That's why I
y ,
what is amazing to me is now your son is already grown
you can probably empathize with this.
It's amazing to me how forthcoming people are with their opinions and thoughts .
In terms of what to do.
I just don't think there is system.
my company, I'm particularly fortunate that tune with that.
I've been at companies where, trend is, or the definite mood is, we made conscious decisions not to have children.
(( )) that's sad.
a couple like us building through adoption, there, it's almost radical to some people.
what you just learn to do is tune everybody else out
I respect, there are some women that I know that are divorced or on their own or in single parenting and men that may have the need for child care like that.
I agree with you, that it's just, I call it dumping .
think that certainly there is a role, for this type of help.
as long as one supervise it make it work one's own schedule without it seeming like dumping or
or, or, giving it, the whole job to somebody else to take care of.
Then, yeah,
(( )) .
in tandem then.
I just,
there are trade offs too I think.
One of the things that is a problem is in terms of compensation to some of the child care providers.
it's just, it's so low
yet the overall cost for somebody doing it on a daily or even a weekly basis, it's prohibitive.
some people that are not making more than twenty thousand a year
there seems to be an alternative in my neighborhood.
several, m , mothers who stay home.
they take,
it's probably not completely legal .
maybe it's legal up to one or two additional kids.
take care of another child
five or six people around my neighborhood that really do a good job on this.
that's another possibility
you might want to stay home one year
some other lady might want to stay home for few years
I haven't thought about that.
my neighbor has an eighteen month old
she's at home part time paralegal.
I'm thinking,
we get along fantastically
I'm thinking,
that's the way you have to,
how wa ,
I'm just real curious.
How was the Middle East in terms of that with children?
care or that type of idea completely foreign to them?
actually there was a daycare center, where my son did go for a year.
I think from when he was two to three.
then he actually started kindergarten at age three.
wasn't like prekindergarten,
it was real kindergarten.
He must be smart.
was ready go to school at that point.
do have such facilities.
for the most part, with the extended family, you can usually find somebody. Which is much like our neighbor
sharing responsibility.
also there aren't that many women who work.
The professional.
I was wondering about that.
I'm in Dallas
there was just a very big, series about Moslem women
there were enlightening things that broke some of my stereotypical thoughts.
I'm digressing here
I was just real curious when you said Middle East, if you
didn't mind me asking.
I didn't mean Israel.
assumed right .
that's okay .
even if you did, that's okay actually.
I think ...
at first thought, when that not many people work, thinking she's going to, because certainly in Israel the women do work .
They fight,
they work.
Are you a Vietnam veteran, Dudley? .
Do you have family who were in the Vietnam War?
My father in right after World War two.
he was too old,
you were too young, right?
I am too young, yeah.
All right.
Do you know some folks who have been there?
A couple.
How did it influence them?
one guy I worked with down in Austin hated it.
he was a lineman down there.
while he was there, he caught some kind of a strange disease.
all his hair fell out,
he had a hundred and five fever for a while
what about long lasting effects on him?
Has he still suffering from those problems?
I do not think he was in combat,
I have talked with a number of Vietnam veterans,
no one directly related to me involved.
my sister's husband was in Vietnam.
really made a completely different man out of him.
He went to Vietnam one man and came back another, not better.
Then, another friend of mine went,
he was in combat.
he came back,
he said, "Okay, that is it. That is behind me. I am going on with my life."
Much like what Roger Staubach did.
a Vietnam war veteran.
he was in the Navy, though,
(( he was )) .
That is true.
It makes a lot of difference.
most of the folks that I have met that were actually on the land, or in combat, carry a lot of anger.
They really do.
I, I really do not think that we did those young men right.
I think that, Desert Storm,
shows a lot of learning since that time.
the armed forces did so much to, Agent Orange,
they did so much to their own people all during that time.
That is true.
even now, they take a free hand as far as medicine and, how they treat the war casualties,
If you come back and your leg is blown off,
it is hanging by a thread, they still can't put it back together now.
what they do afterwards and how they you.
one of the most troublesome things that I have encountered as a result is the incredible influx of southeast Asians into this country
since that conflict.
not so,
much that I say,
I do not want you here.
there is just such a surge of southeast Asians.
It has affected the culture of this country,
It's ab ,
very much.
it's about nine or ten percent now.
the culture is changing.
Look how much more Oriental food we have, restaurants now,
for example.
even ten years ago, there were not that many.
A lot of shops operated by southeast Asians.
(( That's true )) .
A lot of people have complained in the schools.
There is a culture change there.
The southeast Asians seem to be very hungry,
there seem to be very studious.
tends to cause our kids to really have to buckle down to keep up with them, which is not bad.
Not really.
it might in the long run you can see where scholarships, for example,
even jobs. jobs that would normally go to an American, with a lesser education, might be going some of these people here.
that is all a result of Vietnam.
you see a lot of,
a lot of men that were over there, brought families back.
That is,
it concerns me that there is probably a lot of mixed breed youngsters still there.
I would be concerned or interested to find out how they are doing now.
they are probably not doing very well at all.
I know that there,
I know still people even in the Dallas area.
still people trying to get some member of their family back from, Vietnam.
You are talking about P O W s
missing in actions?
Vietnamese people.
Native Vietnamese people.
They were lost, when they were little,
they never did get back
I had not.
had not occurred to me.
That would be
an interesting concept.
as is really a big waste because win,
they didn't regain any of the land that they had.
It spilled over into, now I can't even think of the country.
And to Laos,
all they did is run and hide.
they were not really fighting,
would have been the same as Desert Storm if all they had been fighting was North Vietnam.
I am not even sure who was involved more. Whether it was China or Russia.
weapons in there tunnels for them.
there is no way that they could ever catch them.
I think the terrain had a lot to do with success of Desert Storm as opposed to that in Vietnam.
that is right.
there is incredible cover
in Vietnam.
you can't find much cover a sand
dune .
all they can do is dig in,
That is right.
they try to camouflage the top.
and in Vietnam they could probably have done a better job.
kill all those plants, which would devastate the country as far as farming from then on.
Corps of Engineers I think do a better job now, like they did in Desert Storm.
they had,
dug a bunch of moats and filled them with oil
he set a lot of booby traps all along the way as they went.
blow them up or,
or disarm them.
they had to fill in little bridges all the way had made those moats.
What world war do you think they found the experience for that?
Don't you think they learned from the mistakes in Vietnam?
W ,
Part of it is that,
part of it is technology.
Part of it is technology, yeah.
go ahead.
When you get into trouble like that in a place like Vietnam, you do tend to analyze the problems that you get into,
you say, "Never more."
you overcome those problems,
you are prepared next time.
I think that is one of the reasons pretty much avoided getting involved in South America.
look what happened when they were looking for Noriega,
they lost him for four hours when they were right on top of him,
He probably just went right down into a tunnel.
I know that, from a personal standpoint, people was one of the finest assets that we lost.
We did not actually physically lose them.
They did not lose their lives,
they lost a whole lot of the life they might have had.
That is right.
being entirely different people.
I had dinner Monday night with a Vietnam veteran who is just now beginning to recover from the drug and alcohol struggle that he had.
That is a long time to suffer.
really need,
everybody stood there,
when i ,
in Vietnam I think it was much closer contact.
You stand there with a rifle and blow piece of somebody apart,
or blow their head off,
that has to affect you if you are human,
they had to
I can't,
work all anger out, nightmares that come along with it.
You bet,
I do not,
you bet.
I do not really think that anybody can ever that,
reason and,
and try to adjust why they were there.
you see that is what the veterans are so angry about now.
They say, we're,
going to listen to this and we are going to look at this, find out what our mistakes were, and we are not going to make them again."
that does not undo the ones that were done.
that is what makes the veterans angry.
I cannot blame them.
I do not know a solution.
I sure cannot blame them for being angry.
On the other hand, you can be angry about something for a very long time,
you can say, that is the way it is," and go on with your life.
For the most part, I wish that it had not happened.
it did.
that was, that was era when Kennedy was president that they were afraid of everything,
That is right.
they initially got into it because of Eisenhower.
not want to be in it any more what we started out in August with Desert Storm.
it just blew up into the war.
it has been that way for a very, very long time, though.
I can remember when I was in the sixth grade,
that was many years ago.
We were reading about the French
French, yeah.
struggling with that
in southeast Asia.
the Asians historically have always had these kinds of wars going on.
Right, yeah.
has not been a lot of peace in that part of the world.
not know,
should not have maybe gotten involved.
if we did, we certainly should have supported our people who were there.
More so supported them when they got home.
I am afraid that they were treated as castaways for the most part.
saw the movie,
BORN ON THE FOURTH OF JULY,
I think it did a good job depicting the temperament of the times.
More than, APOCALYPSE NOW .
Dudley, have we pretty well discussed the subject?
I think so.
I think so.
I enjoyed talking to you.
it was nice talking to you.
bye bye.
Bye bye.
P C s, personal computers.
Do you have a personal computer?
I don't, not at home.
I work with them quite a bit though.
work with them at Kelly Services, doing, data entry.
think about them?
I think they're useful,
I think in some instances over used,
that's not the right way to say it.
You mean instead of people
I think that, work places where I've been set up
every body has their own P C
which a lot of times everybody doesn't need a P C,
it really,
without them knowing how to use it properly, it slows them down, more than it helps them accomplish something.
They spend more time messing with the P C than they would actually accomplishing the tasks that they're trying to do if they didn't have a P C at all.
you really have to be able to type pretty fast it really saves time.
that's true.
you have to, be familiar with it,
there're so many different software packages, have to be familiar with the one that you're going to be using most.
A lot of times, people know about half of the capabilities of a package that they should know to actually be able to use it properly,
they waste more time with their trying to, figure out how to do, other things, than they would actually understood what they were trying to do.
they want format a report a certain way
if they really understood the capabilities of the package do that in about, half the time that they spend trying to figure out how to do it without spending the time to learn the package properly.
To set up the boundaries correctly, and
how many lines you're going to use in an,
A lot of times they do it manually on the computer, which just really is a waste of time,
if they ever have to change anything in the document, they have to go back and redo it all manually, whereas if they had learned the package properly to start with and had set it up correctly, the package would do that for them
whenever they wanted to make a change,
seen that as a problem.
Can't you put it on a disk and then just edit it, if you need to when you go back.
cases the with the formatting, what I'm talking about is that a certain document,
it may be eight pages long.
they set it up manually, so that they have all their spacings and formattings and tabs set manually.
when they have to make a change, They got to go through the document and reset all the page breaks manually
Rewrite the whole thing.
and rewrite the whole thing instead of having the,
they had set up the formatting on the system itself, it would do that for them, and save them a lot of time.
a lot of people don't spend the time to learn the package.
How does the word wrap work on that?
Do you end up with very different length lines?
you can left and right justify the whole thing.
It comes out just perfectly spaced like a block.
it's like typesetting.
It'll automatically do that for you.
it divides the words by itself?
Usually it doesn't divide words.
They usually have it space the words in a rather than divide a word.
you see, like in a newspaper, they typeset.
They don't usually break words in a newspaper.
line is going to be a lot shorter than another line, they just add spaces to that line to make it look long as the rest of the lines.
They space it out the line itself.
most computers do that.
will do that for you.
known people that have used a package five years,
I would say, you know more about this package than I do,
how do you left justify?
they would say, I don't know.
it would take me maybe two or three minutes looking in the manual to figure out what command it was that caused this to happen.
they would say, how did you do that?
I'm like, it's really easy.
they were like, I never knew that.
obviously they'd never considered looking it up,
Do you think it's a lack of training,
it's just that they don't use the materials that are available to them.
Sometimes it's,
it's a number of different things.
Sometimes think that they can get any information out of the manual.
Some manuals aren't really designed very well.
some of them,
more and more of them are coming out written in a way a basic, general user can understand them.
I think, people think it's going to take them a lot longer to learn it properly than it really would,
they're really wasting time rather than saving themselves time, because they think, it's quicker just to do it myself
when it's really not.
It's better to learn it directly from the manual.
I think so.
Especially when you have to trouble shoot some things.
a lot of the times the computer program still has, bugs in it,
you have to work around it.
Have you worked mostly on I B M,
With P C s they're either I B M or I B M compatible, mostly.
that's a ,
That is industry standard.
that's all I've seen in offices, is I B M.
There's a lot of really good I B M compatibles, too.
They don't have to necessarily be the I B M brand,
they have to adhere to that industry standard.
do you think it's been five minutes yet
it was nice talking to you.
Thank you.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
Are you a T I er?
Is somebody in your family a T I er?
my fianc3e works for the computers, for the government
that's how he got it.
who do you work for?
I just graduated from college.
you don't have any benefits at all to talk about.
You're just going to have to imagine what you would like as benefits .
what I'm looking for.
okay .
interviewing have you ever discussed benefits with some of the potential employers?
Didn't get that far.
normally just try to sell them on your, aptitude and not, how much vacation do I get .
I'll tell you a little bit about what T I has as benefits.
We do have,
like most companies, we have medical insurance.
Although they're tending to try to really cut costs more and more. what they started with a few years ago is that they only would allow you to go to, set hospitals in the area.
They call it network hospitals.
They're hos ,
I've heard of that.
they're hospitals that they're, agreeing with, T I that they'll be a certain rate, for rooms and care and all that kind of stuff to keep down.
Now they're going to start to do the same kind of thing with doctors.
it's almost like H M O
kind of thing that, only certain doctors are you going to be allowed to go to and get the full coverage.
If you go to a doctor who isn't in the network then it will be less benefits that you get.
We have some dental coverage now,
you have to pay a little more to really get something worthwhile.
Like, I've had a couple of crowns recently
if you didn't have the extra dental plus, you only get like a third of your cost, which can be kind of expensive with a crown.
(( it can )) .
I pay for the extra dental plus, so much more per month because it always seems like if you're going to have a crown or something major done it pays a little more.
we do have pension, although I've realized recently that the pension doesn't seem to be too good
I know when you first start out working you're not thinking about that .
I like to think about that.
After you've been working for a while and you look at your pension account and you go, is that all that's in there.
I don't think's it's going to pay too long when I get out.
we do have a new thing that they've started a few years ago,
it's not an I R A,
it's called a four oh one K plan.
It's kind of like pension.
You put in so much money
T I, meets you half way up to a certain maximum.
I put in a dollar, they put in fifty cents.
that grows pretty good
I think that will be more of something I can see of a pension than the regular pension plan.
Of course you can buy stock in the company,
that's not always a real, for sure kind of thing.
Cour ,
Not always safe .
especially with this one, it kind of goes up and down.
I don't know if it's any different than other companies,
you hate to have it fluctuate
last year it was forty dollars a share
now this year it's thirty six dollars a share,
you go, I'm losing money .
Doesn't quite feel as good.
we ge , vacation normally after you're here for six months
you start to get five days every six months is kind of how they accrue it to you.
it's, one nice thing about T I is after you've been here, for five years,
you get three weeks.
that's nice.
Which, a lot of places make you work like ten years or so,
before you get that much.
decent holidays.
Thanksgiving we always get the two days off which is nice, to make a nice long weekend.
at Christmas we always get two days at Christmas.
They float it around depending on which day of the week Christmas falls on.
that's nice, so you always get two days at Christmas.
A lot of people just take, that week,
I normally take that week somehow,
You only have to take three days of vacation
you get the whole week at Christmas time.
I can just tell you like,
from my dad and my fianc3e, like my dad,
there's twelve kids in my family.
Whoa, okay!
dental was very important, to my dad.
I think they took the dental away now.
He worked for United Telephone System,
it's just another, telephone network.
they took the dental away,
now I think they're going to start getting into eye.
I think,
I don't use the services
I think sometime last year, or just recently they started to give some kind of eye coverage.
You get discounts on, glasses
I'm not quite sure, there's certain places you can go to that have, discounts for people that work here.
you can get glasses and contacts and stuff through those particular stores or something like that.
now for his pension he pretty much just has the stock.
my fianc3e,
he's on that same kind of pension as what you said only,
for everything he puts in they'll match it, up to a certain amount.
Like if he puts in a dollar they'll put in a dollar,
he's only allowed, I think, I don't know if it's maybe five percent, or something like that that he's allowed to put in
they'll match it.
he works for the,
did you ever hear of the National Bureau of Standards?
he works for them.
They changed their name now
where he works
vacation is really nice.
He's going to be there three years at the end of this month
he'll be getting three weeks vacation.
that's pretty decent.
Ok ,
of course, for the government
he has the holidays off.
you get some extra ones.
Federal workers always seem to get,
you get Columbus Day, and Veterans Day,
right .
and those ones that you couldn't really care about so much but you get the day off anyhow.
he has it really nice.
It's nice where he works,
he seems to be very happy,
Like his hospitalization
he has all that
with his doctors and stuff, they have, a list of doctors that the employees can go to
it only costs a dollar as long as they go to that doctor.
I think it works the same way with his prescriptions and stuff if he needs any.
you have to go, to certain ones
still that works out really nice.
we're doing an H M O right now,
when we go to get prescriptions it's five dollars,
That's not bad either.
sometimes when you go, the prescription,
like my husband always takes (( )) which is kind of like, Contact stuff, only better.
that's a buck a capsule.
if you've got thirty in there it normally comes out to about thirty four dollars so when you pay five it's a pretty good savings.
Then there's other times that, maybe the prescription wouldn't cost more than seven or eight dollars
you pay five anyhow.
it isn't a,
you want to start first ?
Of course.
We are talking about the elderly and,
whether or not like nursing homes
as a matter of fact, I can tell you something about that.
You apparently have somebody there, in one.
my grandmother owned and operated a nursing home for years
her mother,
you are kidding?
she did.
my mother also owned and operated a nursing home,
for years.
I will be darned.
And then, went on back to school and became the director of nurses at a nursing home .
my mother and my older sister both are geriatric nurses.
for heaven's sake.
I do know something about that.
You are very, very much aware of what goes on.
That is great.
the motivation for Grandmother entering the business,
was that her mother was very old,
and couldn't seem to find companions.
She was lonely.
she needed company,
for her mother
opened a nursing home and initially started with eight ladies.
I will be darned.
grew into a,
very prosperous business from that point.
then they,
that is a nice attitude to go into.
it seems like they must be waiting until it is a necessity
there is no chance of, good companionship or doing anything.
that is not really true, either,
I think that is a stigma and an I,
and an impression that has come from some few bad experiences.
those who had bad experiences talk about them.
those who do not may write,
a letter to the nursing home and say you did good,
they do not talk a whole lot about that.
That is true.
what I mean is instead of maybe entering a nursing home,
when you are still able to have good,
relationships with,
maybe other friends
they wait until they are, unable.
That is right.
that is because they wait until the children make those choices,
they choose to not make those,
choices themselves.
However, my daughter in law also is a nurse in a nursing home.
she works for one here in Dallas, which is more a retirement village than it is a nursing home.
I love watching these elderly people come, they will come and tell her. I am going for my,
tennis lessons.
call down and have the van come around and take,
us for our tennis lessons."
they are very active and very enthusiastic
they have,
some excellent programs right there on site.
Their dining room looks like, Luby's Cafeteria.
That is great.
one of the lovely cafeterias.
they have, pink linen napkins for their dinners.
And, a well equipped library.
that sounds great.
I am certainly very much for a nursing home
I think when parent gets old enough,
to the extent where they just do not want to be bothered with keeping house,
and with taking care of themselves,
anymore. That is a wonderful alternative.
It is expensive.
It is costly.
if they get this idea across though, better than what it is,
now my daddy's mother, lived in retirement village
she and her sister had side by side duplexes,
one bedroom duplex.
She still had her individuality,
they were there close
they did have, the button that you could push the central office if you got into problems
there were lights that you could flip on and so forth.
they (( )) have security.
I am very much in favor,
I have heard horror stories,
you have that with anything.
I know that the elderly can easily be abused,
(( yeah )) .
I would be willing to bet they are far less abused in a nursing home than in,
In the homes, yeah.
homes of their own children.
we used our nursing home as,
like when my sister was real bad before she died
we took her the last month and a half,
into a nursing home.
they were super with her.
They were,
now, my grandmother,
of course all of my folks lived to be very old
my grandmother developed Hodgkin's Disease,
when she was in her late eighties,
late seventies,
She went to the doctor,
she had surgery,
she got the treatments
the period of time that she was undergoing those treatments she was in a nursing home.
She got better,
she got well,
she got out and went dancing again.
a lot of people do that.
(( They )) ,
(( left them )) temporally maybe they had a,
That is right.
broken hip or something or,
I think it is a wonderful interim place,
it is a place that you do not have to struggle with hospital,
yet it is not,
you have,
it can become home to them.
It certainly is.
It depends upon the individual.
It certainly does,
we have had excellent experience with that.
did not put my husband in a nursing home when he became ill,
I would not object to going to one.
I might,
I might like to be, coherent enough to make my own choice.
I would not particularly think I would want my kids to say, I think this is what I need for Mom", and,
This is (( ))
then dump me there.
I would like,
There has to be consideration taken on everything.
That is right.
I think you would shop for a nursing home, just like you would shop for a church,
or a doctor or anything else.
That is right,
you would look into it thoroughly and,
the best job you could in choosing one.
When you get to the point where you are in trouble,
and you have got to have that help, you are in no position to make those choices.
you do not have the time to look,
that is what,
That is right.
I am saying,
most people will not even look at that until it becomes a necessity.
I think that one of the best ways to do that is for families to realize they are going to be needing those facilities one day,
and to actually get involved and participate on a community level with community service.
Go out to the nursing home, help guide some craft programs, perhaps, work on some music programs, whatever their talents are.
Whatever their talents, yeah.
And work with,
those senior citizens.
I have a cousin who is,
she had a son that was epileptic from birth,
he did fine,
at home,
they lived on a farm,
she made arrangements, so that when she was gone,
she did not want
her other children burdened with his care.
That is right.
she has made arrangements that when was gone, that he would go into the nursing home.
adjusted very well
he has been there quite a long time.
he don't know me usually .
he goes wheeling down, the hall to bingo.
Somebody else, (( is helping )) him out,
That is right.
he has adjusted very well.
one of the things, I think that is most desirable for the elderly is routine.
Routine and,
(( )) .
the only real problem with that in a nursing home is that the staff turns over.
I do not think they pay,
the nursing home staff sufficiently,
get the dedication ,
To keep them there, huh.
that they have in some other profession,
that is sad, because, I think the health profession is one of the most critical,
(( )) ,
for some reason people resist, the fact that they should be paid as well as businesses and that type of thing,
That is right.
It seems to be a resistance.
Care for the elderly and care for the children,
I cannot imagine a more costly and a more,
a more, better area to invest,
your money.
there seems to be a resistance.
You are preserving your heritage and your future there.
as a matter of fact, I do not see why they do not have children's programs in nursing homes.
around here, we have some, the churches,
take children
I know our kids thoroughly,
the children thoroughly enjoy,
my name is Karen.
my name is Terry.
they said about magazines.
probably personally take just two
that's because my mother in law takes every one they print and gives them to me,
a month later ,
I get all of them.
the one that I really especially enjoy,
you may be familiar with it from Wisconsin, is called COUNTRY.
there's COUNTRY LIVING,
there's COUNTRY,
this one is the one they have all the pictures of scenery from places we wished we live, like
Wisconsin .
Gorgeous leaves and trees and all the lakes and the mountains and things.
I get that, it has recipes in it,
that's my very favorite.
that's great.
What do you take?
I actually take COUNTRY LIVING,
it's a
country magazine on HOUSE BEAUTIFUL, because I like,
that kind of stuff.
and, getting ideas for a garden.
In fact, right before you called, I was planning my tulips
Are you?
and, putting them on blue print on where I'm going to put them,
I'm really into that,
I really get into magazines that are kind of basically into, housing type things, be
And decorating and how to do things.
decorating and gardening
and recipes, that kind of stuff.
I'm pretty much in the same category as what
you're looking at.
tried for a while to take a news magazine.
We took NEWSWEEK
I think we took it especially just during the war to kind of catch up on everything and
have it be digested.
we've kind of discontinued that right now
going to start taking that, U S NEWS, newspaper. U S A TODAY,
I think it.
I've had TIME before.
I think with that what happens
is, it's interesting to read
you kind of just put the magazine away
you never read it again
That's right.
unless there's some big article in there that you're going to keep for your kids,
That's exactly right.
I did the same thing.
We saved the ones from the election
we saved the ones from the war and one from the earthquake.
it sounds exactly like what we did
we just saved everything we could
for our daughter
that's pretty similar,
I find that with these COUNTRY magazines, I keep going back to them, getting ideas, looking back and saying, there was a flower garden in there that I (( )) ,
that I would like to have some ideas,
you sound like you,
I get a lot of ideas from them.
That's the thing, you sound like you have the facilities to do that.
we do.
We're out in the country
we're right across from a river,
you're right, the leaves are beautiful,
they are falling now,
it just peaked, last week,
it was just gorgeous out here,
I bet it is gorgeous.
it's beautiful.
The other thing about magazines, the only thing I don't like, is they really get heavily into advertising
I agree,
it's fine,
I'd rather almost have
I know that part, probably half their money comes from these people that are saying, Put my ad in your paper
and I'll pay you or whatever,
there's been some magazines I've looked at,
it's a real turn off to see every
Every page.
other page,
I do the same thing,
some kind of ad,
think I opened VOGUE the other day or something
VOGUE is,
it was just nothing, huh.
heavily into that.
I thought, Why buy this?
it's almost
what's the point?
you could go into a store and get bombarded
That's right.
the same way,
my number one pet peeve in a magazine, is when they put the perfume in it
because, real often, I don't like very heavy perfumes
very often, like, in my bills, also, magazines and bills, and they'll,
come out just stinking , the whole thing.
they're really getting into that
pretty much like I said, the magazines I've had, BETTER HOMES AND GARDEN,
now I need a switch,
I'm going back to GOURMET COOKING, because, I've had
the magazine before, back in nineteen, eighty six,
I thought, I'll give it a try again, because you get tired of one magazine,
you need to try a
I understand.
tear out of your magazines, your recipes
do you keep it?
I do,
I tear them out.
A lot of times, I got a chance to sit down at my typewriter, I'll go ahead and type out recipes,
Type it out, huh.
what I usually do is I'll try it out in the magazine first, and, without tearing it out, and then give it a,
See how the family liked it .
if we like it it becomes part of the recipe collection,
that's a good idea.
I'm going to pay attention more when I'm in the store to that COUNTRY LIVING, I remember
seeing the cover.
Back when I decorated the house with a lot of the little country, primitive things, pigs and the jeez, and the
ducks, and that, that was the big rage here, couple of years ago.
I bought a lot of the country magazines
it seems like when I put some of that away, I quit buying it,
I had forgotten the recipes
I'm going to,
I'll have to check that out,
that's what just went through,
we just recently moved from Minnesota to Wisconsin.
I went through all this,
I had this huge stack of HOUSE BEAUTIFUL
I had COLONIAL TIMES,
I had GOURMET
you don't want to part with any of them because there's
one thing in each one .
It was hard,
I ended up, reducing them down to fifteen magazines out of,
that's good.
I just said, there's one picture in there that,
it really doesn't,
it's got to have more than that
it's got to have some good ideas
it's got to have everything.
I just kind of went through,
I find that most of the magazines I really like is around Christmas time because,
basically I can tell you that I like just about every music there is except for, real hard, hard rock,
I really can't get into that
I go from classical all the way to, jazz and country and
soft pop,
I pretty much have wide range of, what I like,
there isn't any particular music that I enjoy more than just listening to all kinds
that's about it.
I can even take the (( ))
pretty neat music
that they came out with,
I'm pretty much the same way,
there's certain types of country western I can't handle
that twangy stuff,
the old, old stuff that came out, I think it was, Hank Williams,
you talk about twangy.
My in laws listen to the kind of music I hate .
the old, old country,
The old, real old, yeah.
other than that, I like pretty much everything.
that's the way I am, too,
other than,
as far as instruments, I can go from piano to the saxophone.
Lately, with the new music that has come out, some of the really good, music
they have the saxophone playing,
it's so funny, because you can take an instrument and forget what it really sounds like when it plays by itself.
are you okay, Tiana, come here honey.
my daughter just fell.
Do you like Kenny G?
a little bit.
pretty much,
it's all wet, Tiana.
I just the floor,
she slipped.
I can take all kinds of music pretty much
except for when you get, like I said, into the real hard rock,
the heavy metal,
I have no interest in that,
don't have interest of losing my ears,
let's just put it that way,
hearing, anyway,
I saw Peter Townsend on T V last night,
he said he's lost most of his hearing
I thought, no wonder
it was good talking to you then.
same here.
You all have a good day.
You, too.
Bye bye.
Bye now.
Scott, let's, talk about advice that we can offer a parent where the child is going to go to a university
Do you have any?
Do you have any kids
I have children.
I have three boys.
they're all quite young
we want to plan for their education
we're saving right now
we're getting bonds, and hopefully finances set aside so that they can choose a college that they want to.
How about yourself?
Do you have any kids?
graduate school right now .
I imagine you've gone through the experience yourself of selecting your college
your own college.
In fact, I'm again my P H D.
a close subject right now .
Very good.
do you use as a basis to determine which college or university you go to?
, several techniques depending on what,
for undergraduate, my criteria were much different than
than for graduate school.
wanted to go to an undergraduate institution, I was looking for something that was, rather small and easy to get around,
And would be easy to get through.
what you thought,
. my choice of graduate schools it changed a whole lot.
got to where wanted to, graduate behind me, rather than,
Just the degree itself.
that's good, because I did quite a bit the same thing in my undergraduate work.
I wanted to get a school that was small enough, that was personable
that you didn't have a lecture, hall with about fifteen other students competing for the professor's attention
felt that I got a pretty good, undergraduate,
did you go?
I went to Utah State University
which is in Logan, Utah
the nice thing about it too is, I knew that I wanted to get into business and that their was accredited
at least there in the State of Utah
and around the surrounding states and so forth.
feel like, number one, to see what kind of name the,
like you mentioned before, the name the college and university give you
and I chose that was finances.
I wanted to make sure that I would be able to afford it, that I wouldn't get through years of the undergraduate work have to leave.
I did a lot of talking with friends, with family
with, counselors at high school, and also read books the subject library.
it was kind of unusual because two older brothers and I all went to different universities, depending on what our choice was.
Hopefully chose the one that was best for us,
felt very comfortable and good about that.
worry, do you worry any about, being able,
obviously you've taken precautions, or measures to, try and pay for your children's education,
do you think that that's going to be enough?
I don't think so.
I don't know.
way that tuition is increasing, exponentially
it's kind of hard to set aside money and have that money grow
at the same pace that the college tuition is increasing.
all I can hope for is that I land a professorship at a nice heavy university.
And your children can use the benefits of
that university.
that's an excellent idea,
that's an excellent idea.
One thing we did, and my parents, and our family, is that we weren't able to afford, the kind of education that we all desired.
my parents stressed that we get excellent grades so that we apply and try for scholarships
scholarships were very beneficial in my case to help pay for my education, because my parents couldn't.
what the scholarship could not supply I was able work for and
and save and get.
Also, brother, medical doctor right now.
He had to,
once he got past his undergraduate and graduate degree, he had to take out some loans,
working to pay those off.
think that once you get past, the initial stages of it, that there's different options you can use
the student loans good options.
my biggest option right now.
. Yes,
as you're well aware that tuition's not,
what do you think about a year or two of public service?
I know it's hard for young people to think about giving up their carefree years
people that I have known that have done that, like from other countries, especially,
from Germany and Finland, such a better, more mature, outlook on life
I think they're better people
because of it,
they're much more responsible.
I know, the church that I go to, the young men give two years of their life when they turn nineteen,
they're encouraged to do that, missionary work,
that the people that do that are better people that make our,
society better.
I really agree with you.
never done that myself, I, was a basically an education major when I graduated from college
I accepted a job that at the time was just slightly above the poverty level to teach to, very rural children in a very low income district
I spent a year teaching there
I think it was probably one of my largest eye opening experiences because I come from nice middle class white suburban home
I did it, for one reason I wanted,
I was working on a masters degree
I wanted to stay close to where I was working on a masters degree, but also because I just thought that it would be interesting to live some place else so totally different than my own up bringing
my political views
it changed my understanding of the world around me
I think, in fact, I had to do it all again I,
after that, you never think of it I paid for all of my college education myself, I never thought about doing that because I had all these college loans I'd started paying back.
so one reason why I never considered it
now that I'm further along, and I'm still paying these college loans,
think realistically, you can have your college loans delayed now, because I had them delayed because I'm back in graduate school at thirty years old,
I had them delayed because I'm back in graduate school and on that form it says if your joining the Peace Corps you can have them delayed
I thought that was, very interesting
would have thought of that earlier
I probably would have done, just like, is that the Mormon church,
that does that?
one of my neighbors, did that in Pittsburgh, from Pittsburgh.
I thought, that really,
now that I'm thirty years old, I think that one or two years out of my life would have,
probably like you said, to be able to travel some place else whether it be the United States or outside the country,
I think it would have been a very good, experience for me.
I think so,
it puts you out on your own
in a time after high school, there's kind of a selfishness,
teenagers in our country are a year that parents don't look forward to and,
and things like that
I think that it would help people to become,
less self centered,
and to be more responsible when you're out on your own
thinking less of your own needs but,
of other people.
I think, we have such a need now,
I taught,
think I was paid, about nine thousand dollars to teach for the year
I worked in a very rural school district
one of the things I taught was a computer class
these kids, every girl I taught, except for one, was pregnant.
Many of the boys in the room had children
high school juniors.
I just,
there, they came from poverty,
they were going to condition in poverty
the school district couldn't hire many people,
it was very difficult for them to hire,
I think, in the sense, that aspect of public service for education in some of the inner cities
for, just social workers in some of the inner cities and some of the rural areas where they just need advice on medical, things,
I think it's a really good idea. And even if it is overseas.
I never,
tell you sometimes I worry about things over seas because we have such problems right here in our own country.
It would really,
I don't
the people that I've known like from Germany and Finland that have done that
military service which,
I don't exactly recommend ,
still they have benefited from it.
although I wouldn't want it (( )) to make people to go off to the military voluntarily
has helped them
they are just a lot more mature,
than the average student
I think it would also help them if they then went on to college.
I know that my first couple of years of college were, probably too carefree at the,
at the end I had to be too serious.
(( )) .
that's right.
A lot of people they flunk out
they get,
they just get so excited to be away from home,
they just spend all there time partying
that's true.
they do a lot of things to themselves we really don't want our young people to be doing
that's right.
a very interesting topic
because it's something that, we don't talk about in this country probably enough.
Be ,
our freedom
and our freedom of choice
that's true.
and, having people .
like in our church, is, your free to do that or not
you're encouraged to do it because, helps you,
of course, we think it's helping other people.
I think it is.
I really think,
I think, people,
you should,
the kids today I teach,
I spend a lot of my time teaching college students
I find great disgust in them, self centeredness
and their inability to understand, multicultural or multiracial situation
I really,
they don't understand, how other people live,
they don't understand,
they're preoccupied with,
I think that's, just having a good time.
a friend of mine is a psychologist
he always refers to it as short term pleasure oriented.
I guess he's a technical aspect he likes to apply to it,
today's young people are short term pleasure oriented,
That's true.
everything has to be an immediate reward
it has to be fun.
That's really true.
don't know how that would ever happen here
at least,
they say,
I think I, have read recently that, the Bush Administration has increased the funding for the Peace Corps.
I guess because of the changes in Eastern Europe, they've increased funding for the Peace Corps.
of the peace dividend in the sense,
when they're decreasing some of the military spending,
some of that money has gone into the Peace Corps
some of the are the overseas programs.
I have seen a big change, I think, in high school kids that my relatives ,
and friends, that, I know when I was in high school I had an idea of what I really wanted to do with
was going to study
at least I had some interest in,
a lot of the youth that I come in contact with they say I want to be a doctor, I want to be a lawyer.
they make a lot of money.
that's true.
they don't have a goal,
they don't have a goal,
they don't have an interest in their own field of study.
They're just looking what's going to pay the biggest cash.
that's very true.
how many,
is it they say we have so many lawyers in this country,
I guess, live near Washington, being Baltimore, it's something like one in four people,
in the Washington,
area, are lawyers,
I just sort of think that's ridiculous.
There's just too many people.
with the great needs that we need today in science and biology and, problems we have with AIDS and cancer
how come everybody is a lawyer, ,
That's right.
Not enough people want to do that to,
for, because of a service that they could provide.
if you want to be a lawyer because you know that you can provide a service that people need
because you have to have lawyers in this country, but if you're just doing it because you think that's the best way to,
you saw,
be rich.
statistics that lawyers and doctors make the most money in the long run.
that's true.
That's kind of sad.
That's interesting. huh.
I guess I better go.
thanks so much for the conversation.
good luck to you.
I enjoyed it.
thank you very much.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
Okay .
Was I supposed to do something?
I had to press one.
Good .
let's see,
were we right in the Middle East?
Should we have been there?
Did we do what was correct there?
I think we should have stayed longer.
Should we have fought them harder?
Used more weapons equal to their chemical weapons that weren't used?
I think what we did was good,
I think we just should have stayed there longer and continued doing what we did do.
you agree with Schwartzkopf who says, Drive on into Baghdad.
I think we should have stayed and kind of helped the people in Iraq out now because it's kind of like a civil war going on now.
it's almost like they're killing each other off
there is not going to be anything left of Iraq at all .
Would that be so bad?
Was there anything there to begin with?
it would be good if we were to completely lose it,
It wasn't ours.
I just mean the world in general .
We've got to talk so it's as well we argue.
I don't know,
I think we should have helped innocent people in Iraq out a little bit more,
I agree.
just quitting where we did.
Wouldn't it have been wonderful if we could have freed the country.
Yes .
I think that's almost impossible, next to impossible.
other political things that's going on.
I heard that he, wanted to improve the highways.
I haven't really been keeping up with them
I really don't know what he said.
What did he say about it?
he wanted to take the current secondary highway system
and turn it into interstates like the rest of the country.
We don't have the money for that.
wouldn't it be wonderful.
It would be really nice because I'm kind of tired of driving in pot holes .
And back east,
you all drive at fifty five, don't you?
What's that?
I dropped the phone .
I say back east you all drive at fifty five don't you?
out here in the west a lot of our secondary roads are fifty five
we drive sixty five.
(( )) .
I, last weekend, went home to visit my parents.
My dad's in the hospital.
between here and west Texas, there was probably three and four hours at sixty five miles an hour.
I didn't realize that.
Have you ever been out here?
How far west have you been?
Only in Ohio.
you've never,
I've never been past Ohio.
You've never seen the great American desert.
I've seen,
The Rocky Mountains?
I've never seen,
I've seen pictures of it
I've never been there.
I've seen pictures,
I'm paying for my own education
come from a large family
we're never able to take vacations because twelve kids in the family.
my college educa , thirty six,
worked for Texas Instruments for seventeen or eighteen now.
virtually nothing else.
I got my four year,
got my B S in General Science.
I know,
it's a funny degree .
Anyway, I know nothing other than the west.
In fact, down in east Texas
where the company's located
there's streams and water and things I don't understand. Trees and the gulf
it's really interesting.
tell me about where you live.
originally from Butler
that's about an hour away from where I am now.
I'm at Clairon.
pretty, windy and hilly.
how high is the highest elevation?
I couldn't even tell you.
It's not like a mountain.
It wouldn't be like a mountain.
three thousand feet?
I don't even know.
I have no clue.
Close to sea level?
I would say it's closer to sea level.
right here in Colorado Springs where I live
it's over six thousand foot.
when I lived in Texas, every year I had to drive,
I drove every year to the gulf
I could have a feast of fresh seafood
six, eight, twelve hours away.
for fresh.
really interested in the basic concept differences between west and east coast and the central parts of America.
How many hours have you been from home?
the farthest away from home?
I'd say five or six.
now when I was growing up in the Panhandle of Texas,
look at your map later and see town of Amarillo
fifty miles north of that up in the Panhandle.
To just go buy a pair of jeans, we'd drive an hour.
my .
my Gosh.
When I was growing up,
Now things are different
people buy jeans in town,
we thought nothing at all of in the morning hopping into your car, grabbing the fishing poles and driving four hours.
for me, that's a long ways.
It is I imagine.
Even, in a little town right now.
It's smaller than Butler
is about an hour north east of Pittsburgh.
that will give you some idea of where I'm at.
I'm about,
I'll look at my map later.
I'm about two hours north east of Pittsburgh.
How neat.
just little town here is basically a college town.
here, this town would be nothing.
It would be absolutely dead.
it's completely made up of fast food restaurants
in the summer when we co ,
my fianc3ee's family lives up there, *
we come up here in the summer,
there's just no one around.
are you working your way through college?
I go home in the summer
I work in the summer
between what I make in the summer and student loans, that's how I go to college.
how neat.
What's your major?
that's interesting.
what do you plan to do with it?
like I said my fianc3ee, *
Savings and loans,
No .
my fianc3ee works down in D C *
I'd actually like to work for a company rather than a bank or something.
I'd rather work for a company and, be their financial advisor or something.
that would be great.
That would be neat .
Let's see, we're all excited in Colorado Springs.
Apple Computer is coming to town.
The, new employer is in the city.
we're expecting our local economy to ,
Take a boom a little bit.
maybe not a boom, but, at least, recover to where we can all hold regular forty hour jobs still.
what would be the unemployment rate out there?
unemployment runs approximately six percent.
that's what it is here too.
now under employment I would suspect to run closer to eighteen or twenty percent.
the problem is that there are no good permanent full time jobs for people without a technical four year degree.
It's even getting hard for the four year people to find jobs.
It is.
I know people they are out of school for two or three years
they have a job that has nothing to do ...
Okay .
I'll let you go ahead .
have five children all together.
my oldest two are already out and about in the world
I, have a set of twins that are fourteen
my youngest is twelve.
That's great.
I always thought it'd be great to have twins.
If you like doing everything twice .
at any rate, my first two children, I didn't spend a whole lot of time with them.
and, was problem with having five children needing to work full time job that,
was more than a full time job.
worked about fifty one hours a week, because I hours every Sunday.
I didn't get to spend as much time with them should have, as I really wanted to.
Your first ones you mean, it,
was this way?
the f ,
it was with all of them,
it was, more an impact, I think, on the oldest two.
about the time I got out of working that long hours was twins were about three years old.
noticed I wasn't around that much.
with all the children around the house, it's,
kind of hard to notice that Dad isn't around,
very much.
what I've tried to do, now that I've,
went back to school and got my degree when I was thirty years old.
I came out and was making as much money forty hours a week as I did fifty one hours,
a week.
I've tried to spend more time with, the children since then.
what I'm currently doing is, taking a lot of time.
I'm helping the kids more with their homework in the evenings.
we just started a thing where every other week we go to, movies.
There's a movie theater that offers dollar movies on Wednesday nights.
every couple of weeks we will go to the movies because that's how often they change the,
it's working out pretty well.
we're spending more time together.
I feel like I'm a lot closer to the three that are still living at home than I ever was to the two that were living there before.
in fact, I found that I'm a lot closer with,
I have one son who's gone
I don't even know where he's at.
he's taken off for parts unknown,
That's difficult.
A ,
my daughter moved out of the house.
Her and I get along a lot better now that she's moved out of the house .
. It happens that way .
it's, it's been difficult to try to find the time,
I think it's important that we do, because, I notice that, when I had spent two years down in Dallas, down there they all have me kind of attitude.
I noticed parents not spending time with their,
children going out and doing things.
I knew the kids next door were all into cocaine
it just,
I saw the family falling apart down,
Texas is,
much worst for the drugs.
it was bad enough every place else,
drugs extremely bad.
I think it's kind of important nurture the relationship I have with my children now.
I'm doing my best
to keep that up.
that's all you can do.
What's experience?
was going to ask, too, does your wife work?
she didn't up until the last, six months.
She just recently started working then.
She just recently,
started working.
she worked a job until we moved to our new house
she quit that job because it was too inconvenient.
she starts a new job tomorrow, which should take her out of the house about four days a week.
that sounds great.
we also have five children.
ours are all out of the nest .
when they were growing up, had a lot of similar things you had, having the time.
When you have younger ones to take care of, you maybe sometimes do not take as much time for the older ones.
very active, of course, at church, and, Boy Scouting, and Girl Scouts, Four H,
those activities helped a lot in,
giving us things to do with the children.
we try to take a vacation with them every year, camping of some sort, something that wasn't expensive.
our youngest is, expecting her first baby.
all out and on their own.
we have one to get married yet .
they'll all be married.
all doing pretty good.
(( T )) lives in Pittsburgh, you probably don't know where that is.
Certainly do.
Two of our children live there.
one, said, lives around Maryland, D C.
He works right on the border of D C.
one lives in Connecticut
our baby lives just a mile over the hill ,
so, we'll get to see her a little more than, what we do the other ones.
That sounds great.
noticed, another thing, when I was younger my father was always working.
they have to.
worked a full time job and a part time job,
I never saw him.
I didn't have much of a role model to go by.
To go, to follow.
D You,
know, to learn how to be father and,
a parent, and that kind of thing, because,
can't ever remember playing ball with my dad or,
catch with my dad, or doing anything with my dad.
that does make a big difference.
if you don't have,
I don't,
it's my feeling that if you don't have a role model to follow
then it's kind of tough.
everybody's not FATHER KNOWS BEST.
none of us are.
Let's face it,
we're not none of us like they it on those shows.
life's much more difficult than that.
E I,
mean, the capability to, create children doesn't necessarily mean you have the, the mental capacity to raise them .
our daughter, she's our second oldest, only other one that has children.
She has two boys.
she works full time
I have mixed feelings about that.
She's able to do that
I don't know if she'd be happy to stay at home.
yet, on the other hand, got the mixed feelings that I think you should be at home with your children.
I'm kind of old fashioned, I guess, that way.
give, quality time to those children when they are together.
for them that it works out all right.
I don't know.
don't think I ever would have had what it would take to work full time and raise a family.
(( )) ,
(( I )) ,
not easy.
helped out extremely,
I can't say that,
I've helped out ,
as best I could at home.
as you know, with five children it takes a lot of work.
It does,
if, even if someone's home all the time, there's still a lot of things that have to be done.
What line of work are you in now since you went to school
now I work for Texas Instruments.
I'm in computers.
A lot of the people to work for, for the same.
prior to that worked in a food store.
wor ,
Which your income would be a lot better,
right. *
was, it was smart move to make.
I was more intelligent than the position I was holding.
it was,
kind of a waste of a person.
You know.
felt that it certainly was,
I was smarter than most of the people that I was working for.
every time something new came up, I was explaining it to them.
you recognized this and,
No .
was able to,
do something about it.
I, started back to school.
In fact, I was going to school while I was working fifty one hours a week
that's why I,
if you're working, if you're taking twelve credits at night and you're working fifty one hours a week, there's not much time left to spend with,
it puts a strain on everybody, your wife and your family.
the only thing you can remember is to try and stay together as much as you can,
because it's very easy to, go your own direction
working so hard and going to school, too.
all paid off.
that's wonderful.
I got my degree and got the better paying job,
huh .
think as a family we're a lot better off.
It sounds to me like, you're doing well.
My husband's retired,
he's been retired for three years now.
That's quite a change.
my goal is to try to retire by the time I'm fifty five.
he made it at fifty .
It was a magic number for him
he went at fifty,
he still works part time at other thing, same job as he was doing, only he's retired and doing it independently.
But, nevertheless retired.
I'm .
did you want to go first, then?
I can.
don't own my home.
live in a nice area
I rent my home
we aren't sure we're going to buy a house yet because we don't know if we're going to be staying here.
In, Texas,
I think as far as, our home, it's, in a small residential area.
We're out of the cities quite a ways,
it's kind of more of a country setting
it's just a typical, three bedroom type of home.
nothing, elaborate where it has, this or this or,
just a typical home with, three bedrooms, two story type home.
I think as far as if it's, for put it into standards of, what other homes are around here, it would be just about fitting right into the middle part of where the homes are.
there's a river across from us which has more elaborate homes
and yet there's,
where we can view the river from that distance, there's still homes within our area that are, pretty typical of what our home is,
it's, pretty much that, type of, home
our ho ,
our house, renting it from an individual who bought it
he lives in Korea.
he's recently moved here
he's owns eight or nine properties
near here
the houses around here, there's houses on my street for sale right now.
Which is just, in trouble
to me.
they're not very expensive either.
It just seems like,
we have a three bedroom house.
Ours is one level only.
it's the rambler style.
we have living areas and a dining room and a big kitchen
The bedrooms are a little bit small except the master bedroom's a little bigger.
It's kind of like what ours is.
one of our bedrooms is really small
we've made that into a den because we only have one child,
that was our best way of going with, the small bedrooms because they are making bedrooms smaller and smaller.
It seems like they get incredibly small .
that sounds great,
I don't know if we need to talk any more or whatever.
this before?
The T I?
about three times before.
have you?
I'm fairly new to it,
it seems to be going okay.
Are you in Texas?
I'm out of state.
I'm in Wisconsin,
Sounds interesting.
other than that, sure, yeah.
Is this your first time?
gotten several calls.
I'm always the one that initiates the calls because I kind of like it because it's like I can get it done with .
I don't have to wait until somebody calls me even though I have a feeling what's going to happen is I'll probably get tons of calls, sooner or later.
talked to some people from Cleveland
I did talk to someone
else who lives here
in the same city I do,
that was kind of interesting .
sure getting their people out,
it was nice to talk to you, anyway
you take it easy, Gail.
Bye, now.
Bye bye.
for as far as, I would think worst substance that's probably,
started to say the,
what causes the most air pollution is probably the car
Probably so,
whether or not, they'll ever get into huge transit systems into big cities where people would all travel on a high speed, train something like that
it'll be hard to get people to give up their mobility.
that's exactly it,
that's what we're finding, here, where we're at, in Minneapolis area, is that people don't want to carpool
that there are inconveniences to that,
maybe you don't like the person to carpool with, that kind of thing,
kind of a thing where, I think the majority of the people do not carpool.
I think so too.
I'm in Texas
very few people carpool
the people that I know don't want to because, they never know for sure what time they're going to leave their job
they never know when they want to run out and do an errand at noon,
they just feel they need their car.
or if somebody gets sick.
if somebody gets sick, and it's not the other person
and they want to go home, and that one person's got the car
then stuck,
That's right.
definitely right,
people don't want to give it up
Yes, *
now I think we've made great strides
in changing a lot of that by going to the unleaded gasoline and
and to change the car itself
that happens quite a bit,
don't guess we can get away from it a hundred percent
that's very true.
yeah. *
other than that, I don't know,
my other line is ringing
we're going to ignore it .
we'll try to be real quick here.
I'm sorry for these beeps,
The other thing then is, because I don't know how long they want us to talk,
close to five minutes, I believe.
Five minutes, okay.
you're in Minneapolis,
Minneapolis area,
is the pollution really bad up there?
We have, quite a bit,
the only problem that we have and that's all over the whole world is ozone
and of course hay fever season
you get some pollutants such as those,
those are natural
there is starting to,
in Minneapolis itself, because of so many people on the highway, there is becoming a problem of pollution,
they just put in a strict law that as of every year when you get your license tabs
you have to have your car inspected
to see if it's releasing any, lead into the air
or other pollutants,
if that's the case, then you have to get your car fixed,
at least where you (( )) .
that's the way it has gotten here.
We have just had that law, I think, about a year, maybe a year and a half here in Texas
I think it's a good idea
it's not a bad idea.
because a lot of people still want to drive the older cars
which you can't blame them for that
if they are polluting the air, they to have them fixed
there's a big move, especially in the industrial part in Texas right now of controlling the C F C s
that the big manufacturing companies are producing into the air
they're having to change the type of products they use
they can't use,
I have a friend that's in the air conditioning heating business
they have to pay a penalty for every ounce or pound of this certain type of freon that they use in the air conditioning
therefore, the individual, every time they have a service call, if they have an old unit that's still using this twenty two freon or whatever
them three times as much to get it fixed
if you have a new high efficiency system that uses the new type of freons that do not release as many C F C s into the atmosphere
it doesn't cost as much
so eventually people are going to have to go to newer systems,
the other thing when you're talking about freon with cars, air conditioning, I'm sure
over there it's a necessity
versus something up here we can live without it
it's uncomfortable
this year my husband recharged our freon because it needed to be done,
one of the cans released entire amount
of freon air because he opened it,
I don't know
if there was something wrong with it, or directions weren't quite fully instructed onto that,
I was thinking how many other people
It's probably happened to millions of people,
if you take it into a service station,
they want to charge you forty dollars just for, freon, which only costs you about three dollars
I have this feeling that freon probably will increase in price because it is something that people will have to take into consideration and say, that's
that's right there.
I think it's like three or four dollars can
it takes about four to five cans to fill up a air conditioning unit in a car,
thought about that,
my husband even was kind of woozy after that because I'm sure he breathed it
Inhaled so much of it,
you think about that, all the people that are using freon and things like that
of course in the,
I think you probably noticed in the discount stores and places, in the hair sprays
huh. *
we're not seeing as many aerosol cans down here
nearly everything is in the pump squirt,
Pump, yeah, *
What do you like to watch on television (( )) ?
I guess a lot of the,
something that's kind of more of a comedy.
We do have, cable,
we have premium stations like H B O and Showtime and such,
I guess a lot of times when I first turn the T V on, normally go to those, because I pay for them
Yes .
I guess want to see if there's anything I really want to see there, so I don't end up watching the, prime time on some of the standard channels as much, I tend to go to my premium channels first,
we have cable,
we only have Cinemax,
I think our favorite night is, Monday night,
we start out with EVENING SHADE
and MAJOR DAD,
I think that's the one night that we really try to watch television.
my husband's always got it on.
I'm not always sitting down,
Monday night's pretty good with MURPHY BROWN
and DESIGNING WOMEN.
that two hours
now tonight I just finished up with that A WOMAN CALLED JACKIE,
did you watch
did you watch it?
We had watched it, I guess Sunday night and Monday night,
we didn't get to watch it tonight.
was pretty good,
sometimes I like a dramatization,
I like, U S A, when they had their, mystery movies and things, their
made for T V movies
I like those.
We very seldom watch any, Public Television, Channel Thirteen.
Do you watch it much?
The only night we tend to watch some of that is on Sunday nights, starting fairly late, I'm talking ten o'clock and maybe toward midnight.
They have some British comedy
that really liked,
there's a variety.
Some of them is, BLACK ADDER or GOOD NEIGHBORS or YES, PRIME MINISTER and ARE YOU BEING SERVED?
rotate those around,
we like that British comedy.
British comedy is very fast,
you really have to
it is. *
Now we haven't watched any of those.
They're real good,
they do come on kind of late,
we really do enjoy those.
Sometimes we get to watching some stuff on the Discovery Channel.
now we have watched some things on that.
I'm amazed sometimes what I see on there.
I'm very intrigued.
was watching an operation,
I thought,
I don't believe I'm watching.
we had,
I don't know,
my husband loves male syndrome of flicking that channel,
he's sit in front of it
he went by
he said, Whoops,
he backed up,
there's this surgery going on as we're eating our dinner
I'm saying let's move right on .
our grandchildren like that Discovery Channel
if they're over here, because lots of times it will have things on, animals
they just thoroughly, enjoy that
in fact, I think they were watching something on, whales, or killer one or the other
couple of weeks ago over here
we have watched that
otherwise, of course my husband's into the football
I will watch that some if I'm reading or doing something else,
with him.
I'm not into watching sports.
Now my husband likes to watch football,
he's not really into, baseball or basketball too much,
football, soon as it's fall, then he likes
to watch college on Saturday, and then of course Cowboys on Sunday.
sometimes now we're getting that, the other football where they play it inside,
(( )) much ,
Saturdays and Sunday, this is fine,
do we have to carry this on into the summer and the spring
all of that,
flip around,
I think the other night we had on, races, some kind of car races where they were bumping over hills and flying into the air and coming down.
I don't know what channel he found that on
he will turn that on, especially again, if our, oldest grandson is over here.
He's ten
they'll find something like that and just absolutely sit glued to it,
I keep telling them it's the same mentality
something's wrong,
we very seldom watch television on a Friday night or Saturday night, because we're not home
Sundays, we usually have, all of our kids are over on Sunday,
we don't get into that, except that sometimes we'll get into their home videos
do you ever watch that?
you mean talking about the funny home videos and stuff
those are pretty good
that are sometimes so dumb .
but true to life,
some of the,
very true to life,
I've seen our family in several of those situations .
you want to tell me first how you feel about
the proposal,
just think the way that things are going that, it would be good for young people to go ahead and themselves to at least something.
I know, the Mormon religion, they require two years of
The boys
the boys
not the girls, (( )) the boys.
I think it would be good for all young people
to be able do something like that
so that, I just feel it would be good for them to do that.
thought it would be good, too,
I did not think it would be good that they all do something like the Peace Corps
because not all young people would have, what it takes to go like that
because I think it takes a certain person be able to do something like that,
there's a lot of other public service things
that could be done.
in our home towns there's a lot of
public service things that they could do
drug rehabilitation and
and alcohol just, helping old people, and, helping cripple, just helping somebody else
I think that art of giving is something that, we don't have very much any more.
I think it would be that.
When they say this proposal, is this something that they're just suggesting,
are they actually,
why did they call it a proposal,
I think they just gave it a title
is this not something that's, in legislation or
in work some
That's what I wondered.
it's not,
it's topic,
It'd be good character builder.
I think so, too.
I think so, too.
there's so many, kids who have, so much money and so much free time and, nothing to do, and nothing to give their time to.
they don't even have a direction to give time to,
I think
it would be really good for people be able to give their time some kind of public service, even in our government, as, aids to, Congress, people
really good
I think.
people that received sentences in jail, go out and do public service
which to me good.
I agree with you.
This is something that, is it's character building
learning how give to others, and being less selfish
I think sometimes it gives you a better picture of what some of the other people live like, what
what some of the other parts of the world are like or
even other parts of the neighborhood
some of the people, how they live
I agree with you,
I agree with you,
I think, young people are so, focused just on themselves and their activities, and whose going out with whom, et cetera
that, to get a taste of what the real world is actually about
doing that public service would be great.
that's one thing that's hard, with young people, can't tell them how things are
they have to see for themselves
now of course this might be after they've gone through their teen years,
I don't know what their thought is on what age that this should be done.
I would think so, like right after, high school
even if it was their, that summer right after high school
three months,
Of course they've already gone through the period of time where they need more direction
teenage years and that they really sometimes need a little better direction to go
and something,
course now Peace Corps, that couldn't be done of course, until they were done with school
something school
after you graduate from, high school, because a lot of people are just, gee whiz, what do I do now
if they're not focused on going to college,
having gung ho plan
that's, setting their life goals.
Kind of an in between
to me, that would be the greatest time for, teenagers do that, would be right after they graduated from high school.
as for its being required
based that,
type of a system.
like I said, all young people should be able to do something,
not all certainly would be geared to, even Mormon boys that go out, not all of them go,
it's disaster if they don't go,
some of them are not,
they're just not made to do that type of thing
they just aren't able to do it.
it'd be good
like I said, requiring it would be,
it's pressed.
Are you still there?
I'm ready .
Okay .
what's, things that you look for when you go out to dinner?
I just like a nice, quiet, nice atmosphere
and of course good food .
a concern, but just a nice quiet easy place
maybe candlelight something
that sounds pretty.
just to relax,
because I don't really go out to dinner that much,
we don't go out to dinner that much either.
We try to get out maybe once every month and a half or
something like that,
I definitely want to go to a place that's nice and clean,
I've been to some that's been terrible.
you see cockroaches crawling around and
Oh .
I try to get one that's nice and clean
I like good food and good service.
where you don't feel rushed,
you can just relax, and
stay as long as you want.
is there some nice places to go to eat in Plano?
We're almost in Dallas.
We're just north of Dallas.
we have quite a bit between us and there.
It's about ten miles
there is all kinds of restaurants
I had one that was a favorite for a long time,
it changed hands and doubled the prices
it finally went out of business.
it was really nice.
It had a fireplace.
that sounds beautiful.
it was really nice.
They had entertainment sometimes
you could just really relax there and enjoy it.
it's gone .
This is only a little small city.
we have,
I didn't think my coughing would come back.
we have only one, restaurant that's kind of nice.
they have prime rib on, weekends
they have about six miles from here is called, a little city called Wesley,
they have a Wesley Hotel there that they serve food,
the atmosphere there is really, really nice.
that's nice.
if we really want to, something different we go to Modesto
which is like twenty minutes away.
we don't have any fast foods here in this small city .
That is probably very fortunate for you.
Do you have kids?
Do I have kids?
I have a son,
he's grown up.
I have a twelve year old that would eat a happy meal every night,
now's she's graduated to two cheeseburgers,
something's happened here,
McDonald's is definitely at the top of her list,
I hate these places.
All the kids seem to love McDonald's don't they,
they do,
I don't think there's an ounce of nutritional value in anything they have.
I'm sure there isn't.
we have all kinds of fast foods everywhere around
when you come home from work
you're tired
you just are tempted to give in to that,
it costs a lot of money to do it too.
I know.
it adds up
it's not healthy,
I really got into that habit for a while,
I got out of it again because
I just felt like
it was just too unhealthy.
let's see, what else can we talk about? .
how's California today? .
it's foggy and cold here.
Is it?
That's what I've heard, yeah.
Have you always lived there?
I came from Iowa when I was sixteen
I've lived out in California for a long, long time.
you like it?
I like it real well.
we've been.
We used to live in Oakland,
we used to have a lot more restaurants to go to there
then I quit work and everything
I bought a house.
I had a condo in Oakland,
right in Chinatown, so we went to lots of restaurants
that would be fun.
Chinese restaurants,
they were really good,
I really miss them.
Do you miss living there?
I really don't miss
living there.
I just like to go in there and have a nice Chinese
dinner once in a while,
as far as missing living there, no.
It's close enough if I wanted to go there, to San Francisco for dinner or something, why, an hour and fifteen minutes we could be there and
have dinner and then come on back.
have you ever been to California?
I go all the time.
I have a twenty one year old daughter in college there
she, is a world champion twirler
her coach is in California.
she went there for six years.
I went out a lot with her.
I know California pretty well.
I love it,
(( )) .
we tug back and forth who's going to move,
I think he's going to move because I'm the person with more to lose here.
I have my twelve year old in school
she's happy.
She always lived here in the south,
I have my house,
I have too much to lose,
I have to admit that we just moved to Plano recently and that I hadn't voted in an election yet,
although I did go down and register and I,
that's the first time I've ever done that.
been your voting experience?
My voting experience?
do you feel like,
personally I've been very diligent
until recent years.
When I felt my vote was absolutely kind of washed down the drain.
For the issues I felt really strong for, I think apathy has set in to a lot of people
because of the way our politicians are and the way our country is being run.
That's really true.
That's kind of the way I have felt.
also feel guilty, not knowing and not going the extra mile myself and studying out the issues and studying out the candidates.
Course, we only have mostly the representation given in the media,
I have felt since I've been here that I haven't known what the issues were because it was a new community.
You really do have to study to get yourself, up to par with what is truly going on
that takes a lot of research
It does.
people today are very busy
that is an excuse because always, invo ,
I know I'm heavily involved in other things
to take time out and, study the issues in depth would take quite a bit of time
I don't have the time to devote to that
you hopefully find you want the candidates that are running to be honest and aboveboard.
unfortunately they are not.
it's really a dilemma, that we find ourselves in, I believe.
I kind of just have taken a back step away and, hopefully that someone will clean up the mess that's there.
Take it,
it is a task that is, to me, kind of overwhelming.
I also feel, especially in the presidential elections that, since we're back on the old system of electoral votes and that necessarily elect president.
they just want to see how close the electoral votes are with the public votes.
kind of,
it's awful,
it's hard to feel like one person,
I know that it's important,
I feel guilty that I haven't done that here, haven't taken the time
I know that, people can make a difference,
it's hard face the corruption, like you say, to know what you're up against.
it makes me feel bad that,
I'm glad,
I am thankful for the,
nineteenth amendment is it that gives women the right to vote
I'm glad that that
happened and everything
I hope that I will difference
I haven't done that so far.
I know that when you're in a smaller community,
I live in Mesquite
when we have, a local election, for our mayor and so forth
they really, give a lot of information in the local newspaper, bigger city Dallas newspaper,
just give it a small portion of the newspaper,
the local newspaper really goes into, quite a bit of history about the candidate
they raise two sides
there's a pro and a con side
you can really, feel comfortable in, evaluating that, candidate by, that method.
I feel pretty confident about the way it's put forth.
I wouldn't say that about the larger cities
though, country on, the presidential.
they've got people that are running that are admitted, criminals and admitted
I'm sorry,
I don't believe in them turning leaf
unless they have the Lord that has done that to them.
without the Lord, they can't do it.
it's not very likely.
it seems like th ,
You want to go first? .
I believe that voice, that, initialized this call asked about, if we thought that it should be something that should be put into action.
make it universal or something like that.
I, I would be committed to that, becau ,
would be in favor of it?
I know that there are many countries that, are very successful with the operation of the government, providing that plan.
Do they have options on like choices of doctors and that type of thing?
Do you,
I'm not sure their program is run,
I know it has been successful.
I would really have to, read the history of, the country that has fared very well with it,
I'd like to see data on that.
That's the way with me,
I don't know a whole lot about it.
I woul ,
that's the only concern I would have, because I think personalities plus the type of doctor it is has a lot to do with the care,
if you didn't have any choice
who you go to,
I think that's primary, is if you have a good relationship
with your doctor that you can feel free to discuss anything with him.
Or to change even, if you didn't approve or didn't think you were getting good service.
absolutely that, the choice would be yours
if you felt that you weren't being, given the proper guidelines
for your health that you should be able to make, a choice there.
There, that's one of my main concerns.
have a friend that their boy has been sick for several months,
they just have found out what's the trouble.
they have gone through, one, two, three, four, five doctors and then a team of doctors,
they finally determined what the problem was.
It took that long.
the expense of that, yes.
something like that, I thought, if you couldn't change or look elsewhere, for help,
I don't know how that program works, if you can do that.
think that they would have that as of the benefit
to the health care program, that you would indeed have a choice that you could select that individual
I'm sure that they would have a history of each doctor, and hopefully that they would have their, accreditations there too.
I guess primarily was one of my thoughts, because, you know how government is .
those guidelines have to be set up,
I think they should be voted on by the public.
For them to have a choice on
if they're in favor of it or not.
of course they would give a full plan of what their intentions would be,
I think that's primary,
care plan.
That, they would have all the facts and the figures and, what it would mean to each individual family
or an perhaps being single.
I'm not sure what else that, we could address, on health care, other than the fact, I think, the eyes and the ears and the, whole self should be, included in all of that.
dental, eye care, and, our body
as a whole should be included in that
because there are so many avenues that needs to be, undertaken in a program like that.
I wouldn't want to have to go for a private doctor for anything and not be covered by the program.
I know where my son works they have, an option right now where they can have their own physician
they can choose one that their company has elected
that costs them less if they take the doctor the company has selected.
does he have an option
He ge ,
if he doesn't care for the personality?
only to the point that he could go to somebody at his own expense.
I see .
Otherwise to take the physician and the hospital that the company has chosen as the one they have taken.
there again, he's gotten good service.
He took the less expensive one of course.
if he's pleased with it, I guess that's, the bottom line.
would be afraid of what would happen if you had a personality conflict or something.
there's always that opposite story there.
that's the first I've really known anybody that, works for somebody that they had that option, to make the choice
of they wanted to take.
It's quite different from when I was, under doctor's care, that's for sure.
very thankful that I'm not under any doctor's care .
. If you have your health, you're wealthy.
That's right .
You really are,
we live in a rural area up here.
what part of, Pennsylvania do you live in?
are you familiar with any of the area that all?
I have a brother that lives there .
Where? .
near, Philadelphia.
a ways away.
we live in Clarion County.
we have a cousin that lives in Philadelphia,
Are you a native Pennsylvanian?
I'm a former Michiganian
That's a nice state,
that's a real nice state,
Yes it is,
it's very lovely,
it's a very lovely state.
I suppose really our situation here is even different that it is in, more populated areas
as far as,
I'm sure it is,
the doctors that are available .
Of course we have good physicians here too,
we've been pretty fortunate.
We've had some of the most outstanding doctors in our area for some of the different fields.
we've been pretty fortunate.
That has broadened so much also.
That is, the fields that, are opening up are, just phenomenal.
look at the AIDS, case
a whole new field
in itself.
an auto immune deficiency
it sure is a dilly one.
It sure is.
I still wish they could do more with the cancer situation, though.
I do too.
just don't seem to be,
I know they're making progress, but not like, that I would like to see, yeah.
To eradicate it entirely, yeah.
there's guidelines that people have to follow,
if they're determined to, have their cigarettes and the other
carcinogenic causing items
then how do you teach them?
I guess you,
of them don't do these things even,
it doesn't seem to matter.
That's true, too.
it rea ,
I really believe our environment have a lot to do with it.
they say second hand smoke and that, is worse than smoking .
what do you do,
you just have to ban the smoking to their
to their little room that they want to,
Take their rights away from them, they say .
I never had the desire,
I haven't ever had that problem, as far as that goes.
I can't take any credit for not smoking even.
it's a bad habit
It's hard to break,
it's a hard one to quit.
they say that it is.
it was nice talking with you.
very nice talking to you too,
you have a good day.
you do the same.
we'll be I guess talking around the country.
Right .
bye bye.
bye bye.
Kate, where do you like to eat out?
really like the Mexican food, here in Texas
we try and go around to different Mexican restaurants trying them out,
Tia's is probably our favorite, restaurant there,
I think they have one of the best services we really like it.
Do you?
Have you tried Mother Mesquites?
Where's that at?
That's at Skillman and L B J
there is,
it's where Skillman, curves into Forest Lane
it's real good Mexican food.
Another real good one is, Rafael's down on McKinney Avenue.
They're both very good.
we haven't explored, too many places.
lot of the big name brand, I guess, chains
we've tried places, down, by the Collin Creek Mall,
the, Alvarez,
we tried, what was across the street, El Paso's
El Chico's or El Fenix
El Chico's or something,
something like that,
I like Tia's better than I do El Chico's or El Fenix.
much better.
Mother Mesquite's is one of our favorites
then fajitas are one of my,
I like it better than just about anything
they make very good fajitas there
in their own, homemade flour tortillas that are just absolutely wonderful.
Especially with butter and honey on them .
I know,
you what.
they're food.
I wish I could make them here at home.
so do I.
Just can't make those flour tortillas.
what else do you like?
I notice they have Louisiana Purchase,
Razzoo's has opened up down, close to six thirty five.
I haven't eaten there.
Have you eaten there?
I have eaten there.
Now the only problem, *
I love the food.
It's a lot of cajun food and
good seafood,
the service has always been so strange, every time I've been in there.
Mostly it's been at lunch time
I hear at night though they have, the outdoor, bar,
that's it's really, kind of lively.
really good. All their blackened grill stuff.
for we like Atchafalaya's out on Belt Line, in Addison
it's a good restaurant.
that sounds great.
restaurants in town is either Vincent's
there in Plano
or, I believe it's a Rusty Scupper over on, Dallas Parkway
in Addison, which is absolutely wonderful.
The service is great.
They have every kind of fish that you could imagine you'd want
atmosphere is wonderful too.
If you want a really special night out and fish food
that's a good place to go.
have children work,
can eat a lot of fast food .
Fast food, I can understand that. *
I can remember when our children were small.
We lived in the Chicago area at the time,
we had a lot of McDonalds
when they were first coming out.
I know.
I can't look a McDonalds in the face now.
so sick of McDonalds,
all the time.
now we branch out at this Wendy's or some other fast food joint.
Taco Bueno's good .
cheap too.
And cheap,
and cheap.
the kids, they've got those expensive tastes
they like Tia's
they can sit down
and all that good kind of stuff.
Sounds like my grandchildren.
I know.
they're just spoiled rotten,
love to eat out,
of course, it's just so much easier and simpler
usually eat out generally two or three times a week.
it's just my husband and I,
it's either T V dinners at home or we go out to eat.
I would much rather go out to eat than T V dinners .
me too,
me too.
I know that just work
I'm just tired when I get home
just don't feel like cooking.
on the weekends there's always things to do,
we like to go out to lunch on Saturdays especially.
I like breakfast out.
I like the IHOP there in Plano.
been there twice both times didn't quite settle with me
I don't know what it was.
now that's surprising
because normally good.
I love.
I like because even if they're crowded, they're fast service,
don't have to wait forever for a table.
we also like Owens,
family restaurant.
country sausa ,
We think it's good.
I haven't been there befo ,
I went to one I think in Ohio or somewhere up there,
I've never been to that one here.
I know it's just down the street.
It's good.
have you been to Applebee's.
we like Applebee's.
really like that too,
that was,
I like up there in Plano, that, Country Steak House.
Have you tried it?
there twice,
We like it because it's fairly reasonable
for the salad bar.
Salad bar,
Nancy, do you have any children?
I have a twelve year old,
I've been very lucky.
I haven't needed child care except for my mom.
I've been real lucky.
I'm a nurse,
my mom comes over in the morning and gets her ready for her school or just hangs by while she gets ready
that's nice.
drives her to school,
then I'm home to pick her up.
I'm very, very lucky .
That is lucky.
how old, does a child have to be before stop making arrangements for him, I wonder.
I could do it now.
she gets lonely
in the morning,
I feel better.
she has a crazy father out there somewhere that I just don't let her out of my sight.
it's nice for them
you never know.
not to be alone.
she feels that way,
we have a neighbor on the next block that she could always walk over there
and go to school with,
we just feel better doing it this way.
Not after wor ,
I don't know what day we'll stop.
were about to stop one day this year,
her father called the school and made all kinds of threats,
we didn't stop.
you realize that it only takes one second for something to happen.
even though she's twelve, she's still a kid,
She is.
you got to be careful .
I'm glad you have that, opportunity to have your mom.
glad too .
have two kids
five and six, a girl and a boy,
so far I haven't had to make a lot of child care arrangements for them because, I'm at home now
full time.
when I was going to school, I would go to school a time that my husband at home
that we would just switch back and forth like that.
it's really scary,
I would really hate to be in a position to have to find child care .
I would, too, because even though a place can look pretty good on the outside, we're finding out now that it's not always on the inside
just don't know what I would do if
I had to do that.
I know the hospital that I work in is a big hospital
they provide child care,
of course they charge for it
at least all the nurses can leave their children,
they're always watching them,
they can eat lunch with them,
if they feel sick they can call them at work and they run over and check on them,
they feel a little better than if they dropped them off somewhere on the way.
that's nice.
Yeah, *
it is nice. *
I know that I have, done some babysitting myself,
when I was in school and needed extra money.
I know as a provider of child care that, even though taking care of someone else's child and you're forcing yourself to, treat them equally and, better, usually, better than your own
Right, right . *
it's not the same,
it made me realize that, no one will love your child as much as
that's right. *
you and your mother,
and, the family
no one will look out, after them,
my preference would be rather than to have big day care
Care and
things like that,
rather than having one where they would deliver the children to school in a van or something,
I would prefer to have in home care, either my own home or a
neighbor or something.
Just never know.
I babysat for the little girl next door for a year or so when her parents first got divorced,
it was hard to treat her equally with my child.
They were the same age,
they played together,
they were good friends,
you said, you tend to go more for the other one's side
just because you are responsible
It is hard.
got hard,
my daughter got jealous
it just wasn't the same as when they were just playing as friends, because she had to be there every day.
I stopped that after a year, because it was difficult
to balance it,
I know, when I pick my kids up from school they want to come home.
They do.
I would hate for them to have, be picked up
by a day care
and be taken to another
I know, I know. *
large group situation.
I think, my preference if I had to find day care
Yeah. *
would be a small, someone that I knew .
well, I would rather do without some things *
I know that some parents, they both do have to work, *
a lot of people where I live are working just because they want bigger and better,
I would never do that.
I never have done it,
I just never would do it.
I would rather do without some things that really aren't very important compared to being with my child when they're growing up.
that's true, because even now, when they're gone to school, it seems like there's just not enough time left over *
in the day.
there isn't,
there isn't any time,
that's true.
by the time they have to eat and have homework and they want some free time,
there's just not enough do anything good quality for them,
that's really,
I really haven't thought about the topic of drug testing.
just off the top of my head, don't think I see much wrong with it.
if I owned a company and I wanted to make sure that it was run smoothly and that the people that I had, coming in, were trust worthy, et cetera, and so on, I think probably do the random testing just to insure that my company, runs safely and smoothly.
also haven't thought too much about it.
I suspect very much depends upon the job.
There are some jobs where I guess it doesn't really,
it's, if it's not affecting someone's performance then I'm not sure if it's a problem.
it's a position where it could potentially affect, *
That's true
I didn't think about that,
like for instance,
(( )) if,
if someone's working on heavy machinery,
or say driving trucks or or something like that.
Then that is something community.
if drinking or on drugs or whatever, you're driving a city bus you taking several lives in your hands.
if you're a computer operator there's really no big deal,
I think,
that maybe it's not necessary.
for me, I think that drug testing, it follows the path that society is going in.
If more and more people are using drugs then I think that some people have to guard against people that are using drugs.
where society is right now,
something we have to cope with
I think the drug testing is something that the drug users have to cope with.
help a lot.
I think it may be away from drug use,
If they no that, *
I think that may be.
If you use drugs, you won't get the job.
That means one of the points of it.
Of course what the time span is,
if I used drugs last week and I had a, job interview that I wouldn't use drugs the day before or something
they wouldn't even see it.
You know, what I'm saying?
Yeah. *
I don't know,
They may not be able to trace it.
I don't know how far they trace.
I don't know what the, limits are.
(( I don't know ))
that would actually be an interesting thing to find out, I think.
actually know how long those things stay
things will stay there for six months,
some stay for less,
some stay for longer.
Things like L S D, I guess, stay forever.
In some ways,
(( )) you get flashbacks for, forever.
really. *
I guess so.
Something like that,
(( there )) must be something,
people get these little flashback things,
of some sort,
I don't really know.
I don't use any drugs.
I don't really drink or anything,
I'm pretty, I guess, decisive about that,
just the fact that since I don't use drugs, I have no problem with taking a test.
if you actually used drugs at all,
most a social drinker,
it's never a problem.
the only thing I would hate is if I were to go and,
it's kind of the same thing with the lie detector test.
If you don't have anything to hide, you're not going to mind it.
people that, *
don't have anything to hide.
there are some things that just aren't peoples business,
that come out at that point
I think that a lot of people have trouble with that.
understand that.
that's a fine line to draw.
that's really (( ))
do you,
do you worry about, this or that,
what about the rights,
to privacy,
what (( )) if they're doing something legal,
they would rather have it private,
especially in the case of drinking.
if someone is something more than a social drinker, shall we say, yet, they're not an alcoholic, what do you do?
I took a lie detector once
I didn't mind it,
I was just offended by some of the questions, I guess.
there was one question, do you like your mother?
You know?
I said, yes.
Do you hate your mother?
Have you ever killed your mother?
I was going,
those are just,
What in the world.
those are to get the shock value out of you.
just to see, *
Is that what it was?
(( )) Shock.
a graduate student in Psych.
we sort of, figure out,
I know a little bit about that kind of stuff.
What they're trying to do there is, they want to sort of get a base line measure for you,
How is it that when you see these things
Kind of get,
(( )) .
Kind of get something to measure my responses by.
with them they have no idea if you're just sort of jumping,
around and being fidgety,
Maybe (( )) .
It can be shocking
(( )) shock you.
(( )) they ask why I was going,
what in the world are you asking me about here.
I guess, I don't know, some people have probably killed their mothers.
I don't know .
I guess so,
I guess, I don't know actually happens you have killed your mother .
(( )) .
Big jump there.
I think it's their way of saying how well you do,
in a shock situation without worrying about,
Huh *
stuff like that.
I never thought about that,
that makes me feel a little better .
Of course, that was years and years ago.
I don't think that you killed your mother though,
I wouldn't worry about that.
I don't think people,
in society a lot of people are taking drugs.
There is also people that are getting off drugs and trying to do better with their lives.
they take a lie detector test or a drug test, or whatever
the stuff that happened to them, five years ago comes up
it spoils their chances for just making it a little better.
when they might be actually trying to,
improve their lives.
That's, could blow things right away for them,
they could walk in and say, look, I did do drugs a year ago,
Huh *
I'm off them for a year now.
(( )) I'll be happy to take the test,
it will show up positive.
I would probably do that.
I would probably bring something in showing that I had been to such and such hospital for help or,
Whatever the twelve month program.
whatever it is that they do.
they can't legally discriminate, I think on the basis (( )) .
I don't really know.
I don't know what the laws are pertaining to this.
My wife probably does.
I'm not sure what they are either.
(( )) .
it's an interesting topic that I never actually thought about (( )) .
The other day we had talked about, capital punishment.
I (( )) .
I really, really hadn't thought about it.
I think about it because I hear about it,
I hadn't had to sit down well, what do I think about it .
that's kind of like today.
I'm not real sure what I think about it.
I'm kind of, in the middle on that one.
these are tough.
I sort of like that stuff,
it makes you think.
I think that's real good.
It was very nice talking to you.
Nice talking to you to.
Take care.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
I think we pay too much in taxes.
How about you?
I think they waste what we pay.
Excuse me?
I think they waste all the money that we pay .
that's what I think too.
I don't know how you feel,
we moved here from another state.
We lived here before, went out and came back,
that particular state had an occupational income tax, but no sales tax.
what you find out is, one evil is the same as the other.
Here there's no occupational tax
it's a heavy sales tax.
they get you coming and going.
Now higher in Dallas County,
Was it. *
I know, it's just,
It's eight and a quarter I think.
it is.
I was shocked.
I went,
we bought a new washer
the man said, and that's eight percent.
I said, eight percent. What ?
it's really kind of sad,
I don't know how, in terms of when you all do your federal,
it just seems like, if you're strictly middle income, it seems like you get hit the worst.
Is that what you think?
because goes up to thirty three percent
the people that make, five hundred thousand dollars and higher than that, they don't have to pay,
sometimes they have to pay even less taxes.
Doesn't seem quite fair, does it?
it isn't.
Because they have the money to shelter things
I don't know, somehow get a, ,
I thought you were going to say something.
They somehow seem to get around these,
the things that we can't,
that kind of money.
I don't know.
if they're in business, they're making money,
I could see if they're losing money,
they're making money
then they should pay taxes then.
I know,
just somehow it doesn't seem,
you look at like, that country singer, what's his name, Willie Nelson.
I was reading about him in the paper I said, he knew he was making money. *
he didn't look that stupid.
Why didn't he pay his taxes? *
In a way, it's almost like he had so much debt that, filing bankruptcy was a way to get out of all of it
Do you file federal or joint income tax,
I just file federal income tax every year.
do you feel like you get hit by, too much?
I just got divorced,
I'm single again.
a lot worse for single people, because they pay the same amount the people that make the same amount of money and they're married.
don't own any property.
We lease.
we're in the same,
we don't have children,
we're in the same kind of,
it's not as bad as being single and divorced,
X point five children and earn, you kind of get hit with,
doesn't even pay for me to earn a good wage, because,
doesn't that sound stupid.
there's actually less tax implication if I don't work full time compared to what my husband does, *
it's kind of hard.
Whoever works less, they can get a tax credit for that.
Excuse me.
If spouses
work, then you get a tax credit for that.
otherwise you're just,
if you have kids, you get seven hundred fifty dollars or something .
it's two thousand now.
it is.
for everybody.
that's not too bad.
Then child care exemption,
it's not enough, you know.
you pay from fifty to a hundred dollars a week in child care
they only give you I think it's about five or ten percent of that.
my goodness.
I guess that's my call.
I guess I better go .
it was nice talking to you.
Nice talking to you.
bye bye.
What part of the country are you in?
you are?
East or west, I'm from Pittsburgh. *
are you really?
What part of Pittsburgh?
the South Hills area, Beaver County, well originally Beaver County (( )) .
where are you from?
Clarion County.
I know where that is.
out in the country.
that's pretty out there.
two children that live in Pittsburgh .
I got my brother and my whole family there.
talking to you from Dallas right now.
you are?
for Texas Instruments then?
my husband does.
how about you?
I'm just,
my son works for
place needed this. *
federal company,
that's okay.
I guess it's an easy thing to do.
a big,
do you have a rural house or what do you have?
we have a big old farmhouse that we've
that's a,
Those are beautiful.
It had been, of course, a farm.
It's a farm community,
working farm
is it?
Ours is not a working farm .
I can understand that,
that's probably what I would,
I have a garden
we have a garden.
we don't farm.
I can hear the accent now
I hear the ,
I hear the Western Pennsylvania,
in Minneapolis for about five years.
originally lived in Dallas
we met and got married
actually married in Pittsburgh,
not what they want to hear on this call,
at any rate we came back here with,
my husband was transferred around, up to Minnesota and now back to Texas with T I
we're leasing a, two story town home in a section of Dallas they call North Dallas.
it's, near a little town called Plano,
it's not little any more.
do you know Grapevine?
that's out near the airport.
That's about forty five miles from us.
my brother has a home there he's trying to sell.
living now up, Maryland
in Grapevine for a long time.
That's why we're not sure we want to, buy down here, because lived up north long enough to appreciate the, *
Minneapolis Saint Paul is very clean
in terms of, *
in terms of housing down here, you really have your pick
it's just everything's overpriced for the economy.
it's terrible.
It really is,
in a leased town home,
fall out figuratively speaking, it's nine hundred a month.
I'm not surprised.
you know what,
get anything under five hundred you get into what they call high density living
the big apartment complexes
I just have no tolerance for that.
it's not good .
I pre , *
the people think the income is really great in some of those areas
when they sit down and look at what it costs to live
That's right. *
of course, most of the homes are, fairly nice,
they're, done up fairly nice,
the town home we're in. I don't know how, we, *
like a duplex,
a two by two they call it like in Pittsburgh.
right. *
it's nice
the girl bought it for a hundred and ten,
now she can't sell it.
our neighbors,
prices have come down on the homes, the duplexes.
our neighbors, the attached on the other side, they're very nice, thank God,
they paid fifty eight for it.
my heaven.
That's how bad it,
I know.
I know up in Connecticut the same thing happened,
That's right.
people are devastated because they paid so much for their home.
I have some friends that live in Westport
it's really, really bad.
I mean you,
we like our area.
it's an old house and everything
where is Clarion County in relation to,
we're considering moving to Pennsylvania .
we're about a hundred miles from Pittsburgh
That's not too bad.
That's north.
really that far.
Are you going up toward,
I'm trying to think of the name of that town that starts with an M,
Bradford, no that's too far north.
Bradford's north of us.
not that far north then,
you're really not too bad.
was it a home that you've had for quite a years,
that you've,
we've been here since sixty six.
then you have,
Do you have a lot of land
we have fifty acres.
pardon me,
we have forty,
we gave ten to one of our children .
There you go.
Did you have a hard time getting used to,
do you feel like you live in an isolated area
not really,
towns keep creeping closer and closer,
I think that that's,
I can remember in Pittsburgh when,
this has to do with homes, indirectly
I can remember when Upper Saint Clair was out in the,
the rural end of Washington,
now a terrible connection.
it's ours up here.
We have,
our rural connections are real bad
that's okay,
live about ten miles from probably three or four, not large towns but, reasonable.
sub ,
do you like living in an older home and restoring it like that?
we're tired of doing it though.
don't want to do too much more .
How big is it?
How many square feet do you have?
I really.
how many rooms do you think,
We have, four rooms downstairs, and a pantry
upstairs we have
we, have a half bath downstairs, too.
We have a bath upstairs, and one, two, three, four bedrooms and a sewing room and a junk room .
A junk room,
I understand,
we have that too.
large if your children aren't at home any more.
That's large if your kids aren't at home any more.
it really isn't too big yet.
li ,
a lot of people say that
we just like it real well
It's enough space for two people .
we had five children,
they've all moved , on.
They're all out on their own now.
That's okay.
we've got,
town house is pretty big.
It's about eighteen hundred square feet.
It's got three bedrooms, two and a half baths
it's really nice.
it sounds like a good buy.
it is,
I would never buy it
leasing it is fine.
it's just again, privacy,
we had a house in Minneapolis that was on three acres,
my husband was raised, on a working farm near Dayt ,
that makes a big difference.
near Dayton, Ohio,
he said,
slowly getting me to, not feel isolated if we move where there's more land.
You really aren't isolated because it's,
the advantages,
your home is far enough away that you're not bothered by being too close to people,
yet you can have your friends,
you can have them in,
you can go out.
You have more of a choice,
you're not pressed upon as bad.
That's kind of what,
his parents have, land that they retired to, about a hundred miles out of Atlanta
in Georgia,
it is too far south for me,
they have one of the,
when they said log cabin, I just laughed,
that they retired to,
they built one of these.
it's just beautiful.
It's like a custom,
it's not like what I would think of when I think of old log cabins.
it's modern
More luxury.
it's modern,
it's beautiful,
it's country
I don't,
what else about housing except it's,
Pittsburgh's housing economy, I think it's holding it's own.
I suppose they are now.
both of our children who live there have just bought a home.
are they in?
in the Mount Lebanon area.
that's nice.
boy, the house they bought is completely livable.
They didn't have to do much to it.
The other one needs more work done.
It's twenty years old, I think.
they have two children, too,
bought what they could afford.
a really good friend of mine lives in Penn Hills,
they've been in their house, probably about twelve years now
they're to see their return
on their investment very soon.
it's a beautiful home
They are beautiful homes.
my brother lives,
is it called Baldwin or Bebble?
he lives all in that same area going from Mount Lebanon,
it's real pretty up there.
It's just,
It is,
it's real nice.
the neighborhoods are stable
when you come to this part of the country, we've been away from Dallas long enough that you see the difference in housing.
when you mo .
When we first got married,
my husband works for the state,
we moved once a year usually .
my goodness.
after they had to start paying to move us,
that suddenly wasn't necessary any more .
That's what it is here,
that's why we're at a point now adopting
we have been married ten plus years
what happens is, you just realize that once you get to a certain age the next house that you get we'll be staying in .
Right, yeah,
you have to stop some place,
that's kind of like
where we're,
we're considering Pennsylvania,
we're just kind of, toying with what exactly, where we want to be,
A lot of people say it doesn't matter where they live if they have a nice house
I disagree with that,
I do too,
I've heard too many people say, I hate it here.
they buy a place
they just hate the area.
I know,
the economy here in Dallas, steady,
it's still not going up.
just refuse to buy it, if I know I'm not going to be there for at least
five years,
my brother, they're having trouble selling their home,
I'm sure,
there, you can go down a street,
here, he told you this, every other house, if it's been foreclosed on
even big executives
it's really,
it's hard to sell the properties.
People from J C Penney's from New York, came here about a couple of years ago.
they thought they were getting a great deal, because they could get a five hundred thousand dollar home with, they call it, zero lot lines, no property,
Jean. *
it would make you ill to see this.
I mean it would probably be like your house on, a half a city block in Pittsburgh or something.
couldn't handle that .
I know,
I can look outside right now and look into the next unit.
it's across the way,
it's landscaped and all that with azaleas,
not that private.
I get tired, sometimes, mowing, because we mow, a good bit of ground around the house area.
you have a rider.
I do get tired of that
I don't know,
I don't think I'd want to change it.
your kids have,
to tell you the truth, I think that if you can keep kind of like a homestead,
I wear pants.
I'm a real pants person
when I'm at home since,
I'll say, I'm a homemaker since that's my basic thing,
I wear a pantsuit most of the time.
Not a pantsuit,
I guess pants and a shirt
in the summertime I wear cotton tops.
Cotton top shirts
in the winter I wear, sweaters.
I like sweaters a lot.
I do that.
when I go out for meetings , then I will wear or, a dress
I have a couple of pantsuits because those are real in at this time,
that's basically what I do.
I think our tastes are fairly
although I am I government worker, I do tend to,
I'm, a scientist.
that technically,
I suppose, I could get away extremely casual clothes,
for the most I don't.
I wear fairly respectable looking shoes
a pantsuit of one sort or another
I guess dress it up very nice black jacket when I visitors or have to give talks.
that sounds nice.
it said the seasons,
you change much through the season
I guess this summer wore some fairly nice jeans
more than I have in previous seasons.
I tend use the same things because actually our offices are very cold in summer.
I don't know whether they think by, freezing them up overnight, then they can save electricity during the day or something.
you wear a heavy sweater in your office,
all summer.
I, I'm not a clothes horse in the sense that some of my friends.
I guess although in, as I recall the stereotype secretaries was, overdress, over kill, sort of
the people I know who spend the most on clothes are secretaries.
Although the fact that most of the ones I know are in the government and they're not meeting the public
a little bit strange that their priorities be to spend this money here .
You know,
I suppose if you were more a receptionist and meeting the public and it was the image of your company at stake
Then may , .
perhaps you would have to dress up.
I don't have the resources to just go out and buy, buy, buy anyway
my don't change dramatically over the years.
If I need something new, I will go and buy it.
basically I'm pretty much the same
in the summertime I wear the light cotton
in the wintertime I change to the sweaters.
it's not a whole lot change for me either.
especially when I go to the meetings and wear the dresses
I enjoy that,
it just wouldn't be, smart for me to do that in my home with my children.
I have to, think about things like that, too.
I have given seminars before creative writing and things like that.
I don't know if they consider that a job.
I don't really get paid for that, often,
when I do that then think I become more businesslike.
it doesn't really change my clothing style.
you can look businesslike a you would,
wear for other things.
really glad about that pant suits are popular because I'm allergic to many of the synthetics.
I used to have a problem I was working in a restaurant while I was in college
and had to dress up, and nylons and things like that would just give me a terrible rash.
That's not helpful.
otherwise, guess we're both pretty practical .
I guess so .
it's been great talking to you.
Have a great day.
have a good day.
Bye bye.
What do you think?
about drug testing right?
certainly under influence of the idea the government needs to have less control on the citizens do,
I do see this as something that definitely needs to be taken care of.
should be put in the hands of the corporation or the, hands of the government is a different question I think, as far as I'm concerned.
I ,
other words, I am of
I was drug tested when I came to my job here at T I.
at the same time, I don't think, that should be governed the government, per se.
I think it should be more by the private institution.
How about you?
I think that the corporations should, do all that.
They should, have drug screening before they hire
an employee
any time that an employee,
if they're coming to late work all the time and,
especially if on the line or any kind of sensitive job where, it would cost a lot of money or
or people's lives. *
Then they need to be watched carefully *
agree with you.
would even think that, I could, in theory take that a step further and say anybody in any job, if the corporation felt like,
this is why, drugs are the biggest problem, I think to face America today.
I mean it's what drives crime,
it's what drives, any sort pain and discomfort in the world, or in America I think driven by drugs
I think that, were corporations and, private industry to command in this situation, that we might have control over that.
if you can't work, be a little bit harder to drugs or whatever,
I don't know.
Right. *
Course, that might up crime, when, people go in and steal your television and ste , and sell it just because work anymore,
you got to have safe work place.
That's all there is to it.
definitely right.
That, have it any other way.
in the case that you brought up,
if it's a policeman and he's working with, the public gun in his holster even, if it's a guy at McDonald's cooking a burger, I think, they're dangerous in either situation.
do you think,
what percentage corporations and, private industry do you think use, drug testing?
I think more frequent now.
It's probably like forty, fifty percent.
Because, all the jobs that I've applied for have, mentioned some type of drug screening.
What kind of work are you in?
I work at Sears.
I just do warehouse work.
did they give you drug testing?
they hired me in nineteen eighty four
Yeah. *
now they issued a statement
about that, about three months ago.
are they going to, begin spontaneous, drug testing?
not that I know of.
It was more about, all the people's problems.
they've been laying off a lot of people.
they sent out the employee assistance cards for anyone that had any sort of drug problem or work related problem.
Family problems,
They kind of covered everything.
I know they have a lot of drug problems
What do you think about,
something that kind of concerns me is, and I are tested whatever work we happen to do.
Do you think there should be drug testing for political officials?
I do.
I do, too.
talk against drugs
they get caught,
In stings in Washington. *
Whether it's drugs or any other kind of,
like money laundering scams. All that was drug related.
that cost us, the country, billions of dollars.
I would agree with you.
I can't see how we can expect the, people working in America put any trust into our political officials if they don't,
just doesn't make sense to worry about legislation unless they're doing that themselves.
Doug, you want to start? .
You don't use any credit cards, I don't imagine.
Of course I use,
credit cards.
I have a couple of credit cards
and, use them.
do you use them a lot?
we try not to.
We're on a pretty strict and tight budget.
We use the credit cards, however, when we're at a situation where we don't have either the cash or the checkbook handy.
we use credit cards also, if we want to get an extended warranty on an item that we're purchasing.
that's an idea,
that's a thought,
basically we use it mainly when we're traveling
or out of state or
or somewhere where, checks
when we're traveling some.
Do you use credit cards often?
My husband loves them .
we do use them.
we try not to,
one who believes in credit cards,
he uses them quite a bit.
He likes using them and then just pay at the end of the month .
likes that,
a good thing, because lot of people don't pay at the end of the month
they just pay the minimum required balance.
that's when you get into expenses.
you get in over your head.
some people I know also try to use it as float
where they buy something now
say, I'm going to buy this when it's good and on sale
I can
go ahead and pay for it when I get my check at the end of the month
when I'm being paid.
sometimes you do come on bargains and that,
it's really useful.
That's true.
some places won't take, personal checks or cash, even
they would take a credit card.
the laws in Pennsylvania, regard, not the laws, but the in Pennsylvania?
For example down here, when you go up to a gas station
you get an extra charge for credit cards
than you would by paying for cash.
Are they the same there?
we have the same thing up here,
we don't deal where they do that .
to places where they don't charge extra.
Some of them charge five cents a gallon, even,
the gas stations more,
That's pretty steep.
we just try to avoid, the ones that do that,
we just don't, go there
because there's enough other ones around that don't charge you anything
to me, credit cards are the same as cash,
to me they are, anyway,
because you make the deduction at the time of the purchase
so that
the end of the month or when you get your credit card bill
are you saying that that way you're not left stranded
and high and dry .
Very good.
one of the faithful shoppers that don't get into a problem when it comes to budgeting their money.
I can't say we never have.
Now we have, at times, made payments
on our things,
we try not to.
We try hard,
I see that as an advantage to a credit card, also
that you can
can find yourselves in those situations and use a credit card to
to help yourself.
I think that there's a great advantage to a credit card in those situations.
because sometimes, there's times when you couldn't take advantage of something
with a credit card you can.
do you have, multiple credit cards?
do you find that advantageous
I think we're narrowing it down,
like I said, my husband likes them,
we have quite a few,
down to the nitty gritty, there's probably three that we use
most of the time.
actually in the same boat.
We like to use three, basic credit cards.
That way we're not confused
we don't have an awful lot of expenses or surprises when it comes
the end of the month.
do you find that you get an awful lot of credit card applications through the mail?
Once a week,
twice a week,
three times a week.
it's not every week,
do get them.
They make it very readily available.
Almost too much so.
don't like it the charges that,
we try to at that also,
what they charge per year
the annual fee.
to use our money,
they're charging us to spend our money,
not real crazy about that,
we try to look at that also.
there is the basic annual fee for the credit card
plus they charge any where from seventeen to twenty three percent
based upon what the state will allow,
Miss Nancy, we should be in business now.
Did you hear the questions that the lady, brought up?
Such as how much time,
I'll ask,
how much time do you spend with your children,
how many do you have?
We have two children,
they're both grown and married
we have,
our daughter has three sons,
we see them at least once a week,
we see our son and his wife about every other week
we baby sit quite frequently.
we're a fairly close knit family.
We're together a lot on special days
of course, with the holidays and everything.
you're very fortunate.
I have two girls and a son,
my oldest daughter lives in Amsterdam, Holland.
She ,
Her husband builds pianos,
it's kind of hard for us to visit with them, as much as I'd like to.
Because one thing we do have together is we're both musicians.
I play in several symphony orchestras
she is a concert, harpsichordist.
And travels around a good bit in Europe.
her husband builds forte pianos,
which are harpsichord size pianos.
Pianos, huh.
that's why they're over there.
I have son who lives in, Warrington, Pennsylvania.
I get to see him maybe once every three months.
we've lost,
I'd like to have an everyday contact with children, as well as you do, for that matter,
youngest daughter lives in New Jersey,
you don't get to see any of yours very often.
I don't hardly get to see any of them.
She works in these, Trump type casinos,
she and her husband both do.
They work,
they're really both, on stage
they're running lights right now and audio and (( that thing )) for,
plays and things that go on.
do with your children when you are together?
most the time,
right now it's football season,
our daughter is a big Cowboy fan,
as is our husband,
my husband,
she watches that
I play with the grandchildren .
I enjoy the grandchildren.
like last weekend, there's the Soviet space exhibit is here in Dallas,
it ends,
in January,
she the three boys and my husband and I went over into Fort Worth to see the space exhibit
this Sunday,
The Soviet space exhibit?
My goodness.
I am surprised they would bring anything over here.
it's been here for quite, some time.
I think it came here in either September or October
I'll bet.
it's been very well done .
Sunday they're coming over after the Cowboy game
we're going to go take the boys to see Christmas lights and go to a Santa's village.
when our son's over, we have a pool,
he and his wife come and a lot of their friends,
we have cookouts on Sunday
that sounds like you have really,
wonderful activities that
do a lot with
keep you together.
with our kids,
we always have.
We've taken a lot of trips with our kids when they were younger.
we're very family oriented.
that's wonderful. *
we like being with our kids,
the kids seem to enjoy being with us,
their friends enjoy being with us.
huh. *
keeps us very, very young, with all these young people passing in and out and eating,
seems like I've,
The only problem is, it keeps you pretty busy, keeping everything going,
doesn't it?
it does .
I'm worried about Christmas.
Christmas Eve they all pass through,
they all end up spending the night Christmas Eve night, so that,
we open our presents on Christmas day
they go out to in between some of this,
they're all,
with us,
have Christmas dinner with us and then go to other in laws and things,
we see a lot of them.
we enjoy Christmas Eve night, because they all start arriving by about eleven o'clock,
we open presents about five o'clock Christmas,
I go to the kitchen and cook,
my sister her husband are coming down,
there's going to be eleven of us for Christmas.
That's great.
There's a,
the question now to ask, is it difficult to find time,
you seem to be making out all right.
Sometimes I'm a little exhausted .
tell me,
do you think the current trends of how other people spend time with their children and so forth?
think the trends are going back to spending more time with families.
I think parents are definitely, spending more and more time.
I don't think they're leaving them with baby sitters,
family quality time is becoming much more important than it was there
for about, I don't know, eight or nine years.
Seems like it went through a spell there where families weren't that big a deal.
Parents kind of went and did their thing,
kids did their thing.
that's exactly what I was going to say.
course, I find now that I spend more time with my grandchildren in
I know more about them and watch their growth and how they improve learn much more so than my own kids.
your own children are growing up, you just take them for granted
you go ahead and do your thing
Do you have any children?
I have a daughter.
I don't any children ,
I'm going to have difficulty with this topic.
what kinds of things do you and your family do?
we go out and fly kites
we go fishing.
we go to movies
we go out to the farm.
huh. *
she likes to pick flowers and look at birds.
Then your kind family is probably pretty rare now a days.
I don't see a lot of families fishing and doing things like that.
That's great.
I'm divorced,
we do.
we color a lot
I read her stories.
That's great.
I think a lot of families now, they probably don't spend enough time together.
whether their parents are together or divorced they don't spend enough time together
I think that contributes to a lot of why society is going downhill right now is because the basic family unit is being destroyed.
Just simply because that time isn't spent just doing things like fishing
when you spend a lot of time with each other you communicate a lot.
the communication build your family.
. living with her with did stuff then too,
I know.
I like that.
Whenever I do have children going to try as hard as I can to that we spend a lot of time together,
maybe just even, if we just rent a movie and watch it together just to make sure that everybody's not going out and doing and their her own thing all the time.
that's good sometimes because you need to, get away.
I don't think should spend too much time outside at the detriment losing unit.
that's right.
then you never get to know them either.
They're all grown up
as I understand it,
I don't know,
I haven't experienced it,
kids these days are growing up so much faster. *
once they hit ten or eleven or twelve, you've pretty much lost them .
they're out doing stuff by that time.
family is pretty rare in that you do a lot of things or just the relationship between you and your daughter?
I really do I don't see many others (( ))
we go to the park or something sometimes on the weekdays, we'll see other families.
not usually on the weekends we don't see very many in comparison.
What do you think is the key just bringing the American family back together?
What kinds of things do you think can?
I think they can turn off the T V for one thing.
that's true.
go out and do stuff,
she always likes to do things whenever the T V s off.
she'll forget about the T V completely.
I think that's the first thing a lot of people do
I know I'm guilty of it.
I came in from work today
first thing I did was turn the TV on.
Because I taped the stories from earlier today.
I like to watch 'em
I think that's that is a big problem. The television
too static,
it's something that you can do
there's no thinking involved, no motion,
I that's another reason why people are, so health conscious now is because America's becoming really a couch potato society.
people aren't doing anything just sitting around, no thinking involved
people are trying to get out of that.
At least
a lot of
it's becoming really health conscious
that people are starting to look out for cholesterol and things like that trying to get out and workout more often and jog and walk and different things like that.
that's probably good,
if you get your family involved in exercising and maybe playing tennis or something like that, that also helps.
That's also something, family oriented that everyone can do.
here last summer we played tennis
she hasn't brought her tennis racquet over lately.
old is she?
she's five.
she has,
just been hitting the ball on the ground.
She can't hit it in the air yet,
then we kick the ball.
We play like soccer.
You've still have a lot of time before she gets up in years .
That's good.
That's good.
it was very nice talking to you.
Nice talking to you.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
you like to fish,
I like to,
I don't have a boat,
I like to fish
there's a lot of lakes around here.
are there many lakes up there?
actually there are quite a bit of lakes around me.
the, the, the Great Lakes,
Grea ,
Lake Ontario is right near here.
we're in what's called the Finger Lake Region of New York
where there're lots of small lakes everywhere
these are, real good, for, bass fishing and so forth.
They have mostly small mouth in them
we have lot of variety.
we have large mouth, small mouth, sort of musky, pike, stuff like that.
all sorts of fun stuff like that.
we have a pretty large bass masters tournament actually takes place right on Lake Ontario every year.
that's right,
that's, a lot of fun.
How about you?
to go for?
I fish for bass,
I hardly ever catch one,
they have a tail race over in Lake Lavon
up the dam and let out water, they wash down the fish
you catch that white bass and crappie out of there.
Every once in a while there'll be striped bass.
We have, some friends who live on the lake
just seems, completely filled with bass to the point where, normally you fishing for bass, you get a lot of sunfish, cat or whatever, and some other strange stuff. *
in this particular lake, we went out with some friends, once
every time you tossed the line in, you pull up a five, six, seven inch minimum bass
usually you pull up, thirteen to fourteen inch bass.
enjoyable experience to go fishing there because up, bass after bass
During perch season as well, you pull up a lot of, *
probably perch season the perch will run in very large schools,
what they'll do is j ,
be sort of boating around,
these people own a little row boat,
they'll be boating around
school of perches in the middle
when they do, you can just drop the lines in and just pull them in one at,
just drop it in.
They can't pull it in fast enough.
catch perch on?
according to them, them on just about anything.
They tend to use, I guess worms or some kind of lures sometimes,
she told me that they will sometimes use corn or anything,
corn or salami or bread or anything,
they'll hit because they're just sort of surrounded, these large schools.
sometimes I use corn,
some fish steal it off the hook sometimes.
it's a big problem.
the other day I was fishing with bread,
there's a college across the street
full of carp I caught a carp on a, about, what size is that, I think it was a number two treble hook,
it's huge,
mouth was full of hooks.
he was in a bad way.
he was fast.
A big one?
it's, it was sixteen inches long.
that's a nice size carp.
I think it was about a pound and a half,
all they're good for is the fight.
Boy want to come out of the water
they zip through the water,
line goes,
I thought, that, I wasn't going to be able to get it in, because, the one I hooked just about ten minutes before, when I tried to raise it out of the water, it fell off,
it wasn't hooked very well.
I got it that far,
I figured that,
that counts.
that's what I said.
That's what I told the guy.
The guy was standing there
he laughed when it fell off
I said, that's a quick release, right there.
do you actually like the taste of f ,
do you, eat the fish that you catch
are you more of a sport fisherman?
catfish, yeah.
I haven't eaten anything else,
there's some,
my dad has a farm
he has two ponds up there
my uncle has pond upstream
there's a lot of crappie in there now.
I think he's the only one that's, that's caught to eat.
the catfish, hundreds of them from like two to six pounds and, that,
you can just,
I don't actually like fish.
It's sort of,
when I fish, it's more for sport than anything else.
have to look in their eyes and, hit them in the head or whatever, that's what you do with a catfish
because you have to sever their spinal cord.
be careful you don't get stung.
I know it.
Have you ever tried, deep sea fishing?
not yet.
My brother went off the coast of Maine,
when the,
I don't know,
what they,
that school up there? *
said that it was just like that.
They were throwing hell benders or, some other kind of treble hook lure
each time they bring them in they'd have at least one,
sometimes they've had every hook.
was out in Florida with a friend a while ago
we would go and just, drop or three rig, two or three hooked rig as well down off a boat.
We just dropped it down there
the captain had, some kind of sonar in the boat
he'd maneuver us into a school of fish
you just drop it in it just,
get one or two at a shot,
It's a good deal, too.
a, like twenty dollars for six hours of fishing on some big charter boat.
they'll clean your fish on a tip basis for you if you want.
down here it's like two hundred dollars a day.
this is,
this was for a, large,
there were
A group party.
maybe thirty of us on the boat.
weren't all related, just, thirty people off the shop in the boat there.
If you want to go on a boat alone, it's like two hundred dollars a day.
this is great, because nineteen dollars for five hours and twenty dollars for six hours or something.
you'd get to go out there for six hours and get a nice suntan and bring along some lunch fish all day.
It's really nice .
It's real enjoyable.
don't know if it's been five minutes yet or not.
I think we're probably close, though.
It's nice talking to you.
Nice talking to you, too.
Good luck with fishing this season.
Good luck.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
What do you think about the benefits in jobs?
relatively satisfied with the benefits I have.
I think that, our health insurance is terribly expensive.
I'd rather that we got a bit more coverage for a lot less money.
my major complaints, I guess.
What about you?
a lot of times they turn down your claims
that leaves you paying for all of it.
maybe that it's not understood what should be covered and what isn't.
health insurance I have is Met Life,
it's the type that if you go to a certain doctor then, you just pay ten dollars
the insurance pays the rest of the bill.
if you go outside you get, seventy thirty.
I see. *
Now we,
I have just the regular insurance so that any doctor is covered
what I found recently is what they've been doing is poll somehow the area,
they have what they consider a justifiable price for the area where your doctor is located based on zip code.
recently, we had a claim, they didn't pay the eighty five percent they paid much lower
when I called they said, Oh well, that's because your doctor is charging much more than the norm for the area.
I was really surprised because either there aren't that many of that type of doctor within that zip code, so that, two doctors could balance each other out, or statistics aren't very accurate. *
they're probably doing it to their benefit, anyway.
I would assume that whatever doctors are willing to do the paperwork and send it in.
What about benefits?
Are there others that you're dissatisfied with?
I work for Sears,
that's about only real benefit you have, is health insurance.
you have vacation,
everybody gets vacation.
T I and some other places, they have facilities,
they have a driving range and weight room
I think they even have a swimming pool
I don't know if they have any tennis courts or anything like that.
I'm not familiar with that sort of thing,
to me vacation an issue,
different places have different amounts of vacation, I would assume.
the leniency with which they let you take leave without pay, perhaps or, I suppose, sick days.
Some places count the number of hours
some places just sort of believe you.
ours is based on number of days,
people try to build them up in case they really do get seriously ill.
otherwise, I'm not aware of any problems with the benefits around here .
maybe that covers the topic then.
I don't know, conditions, if you could include that in benefits.
Some places aren't very safe to work.
some places don't compensate you for the hazards have to work under.
maybe either, would be the allowing you to use the telephone for personal calls.
I suppose some places more stringent about that than others.
I think so.
maybe arriving late or something like that,
they enforce the rules.
other than that I don't have much feeling the benefits,
since, like I said, I don't have a big problem them.
comp is a big thing now Texas because, how much it costs the employers
lot of them are going to their own insurance now.
it reduces some of the length of the benefits, I don't know besides that.
noticed right off that was a year less than what the state was allowing.
didn't know that somebody could avoid workmen's compensation.
they still have to pay it
they buy their own instead of going through the state.
I see.
apparently it costs less that way.
I suppose that whenever companies can avoid, benefits, it's to the benefit of the company
at least, financially in the short run,
I would think they would get a much greater turnover
that people would be dissatisfied
working for them. *
That's think
they should be able to judge their benefits on how happy their employees are
how much profit they're making
instead of trying to cut everything down *
have everybody be unhappy have a constant turnover of people.
Right. *
sure, the payroll is lower that way,
I would assume that the productivity is way down, also.
the productivity and the training costs,
if they have to train every six months, then I don't see how they can save money.
once they once they get somebody good, they ought to hang onto them.
That's right.
I agree.
it was nice talking to you.
thank you for calling.
Bye bye.
Bye bye
Bye bye.
All right.
she lives in Utah,
That's the way we always were.
We always lived away from our family and relatives while the kids were growing up.
I guess we're going to talk about children today.
let's do i ,
you ready?
My children are all gone already.
all out on their own.
do you want to start first
do you work?
I don't,
I stay home most of the time
I know that it's very difficult find good help sometimes when you want your children to be taken care of.
there's a,
my neighbor she tends children though
there's a big controversy whether they should have to, have a law to have them certified not.
there's pros and cons on both side of that
if they were, then you kind of know that they had to go through some kind of testing,
or some kind of something to , get an okay seal.
most of the problems we hear,
of course, maybe that's what we hear about is from organized and approved day care centers.
That's right.
That's right.
maybe we don't hear about the other ones though that could be.
the individual incidence or something.
usually when I have someone tend,
my oldest tends for me now if I go somewhere
how old,
is your oldest?
He's almost a teenager .
he's plenty big enough then .
very good.
before that use, kids from our church,
they did a good job,
for me.
I've never had to leave them in a day care center,
or anything,
I've been very lucky just be able to stay home.
That's the way with me.
worked four years one time,
my last two children were, both entering high school age.
they were, of course, gone while I was
it wasn't a problem I saw,
I stayed home the rest of the time.
didn't have that problem either.
my oldest daughter she has two children
they've been in day care,
she works full time.
that's hard.
yet she's the type of person that, I don't know, if she'd be happy staying at home.
some people aren't.
surprised me though.
She's done a lot of things that I never thought she would do, the family because she was the one that said she was never getting married and never going to have any children.
right? .
a lot of quality time I think when she is the children.
I think that's really important.
used the day care most of the time.
They tried one once.
They had a lady come in.
also had a small child she brought with her.
it did not work out. at all .
was going to.
She was real excited because it was so much easier than taking the children out,
in the morning,
the lady called
her baby wasn't very old at the time and said she was having trouble.
this baby baby easy to satisfy usually.
she was having problems with her,
she called and said things were okay, settled down and was all right.
my daughter decided to call them and check
things weren't okay .
one son was watching the soapies
which she doesn't allow them to watch the soapies.
the baby was in his crib with the door shut just screaming his heart out,
the baby sitter was in the kitchen with her baby.
that ended that,
she was most upset, over finding this.
I bet.
kind of had decided that the day care was better.
more people involved,
more than one adult they,
the age groups are separated .
nannies have been an option,
I know that at day care they have more of routine like
preschool would have where they have lessons and,
so forth,
story time,
and so on.
one has been particularly nice.
kept track of what they did,
they would tell the parents what they did that day.
if they said anything or did anything.
it kind of kept them,
Gave you an idea of what your child,
was progressing in or doing.
thought that if you were checking into a day care, that you would be good to get references,
on people that had been in that day care but was no longer there.
they wouldn't have nothing to worry about saying,
if there was a problem would I think be more ready to tell you what it was.
I think so, because if they were still there, they might not,
They may not say anything.
from what others have, what you see, the cleanliness and that type of thing.
You can't really.
You can't really unless your child would be old enough to say something,
usually they aren't at that age.
(( )) it would be real difficult to find one and
I know tended some children.
wondered if I would have to be certified
whether they'd just bring them
we got to where, we were just friends
they said, no, don't do that, we'll just bring them.
if there was a problem
we'd sit down,
and talk about it
it never happened,
to be a problem,
things worked out okay,
their kids played with my kids
it worked out well.
worked out good.
baby sit my two granddaughters.
(( Since they'll )) be going back at the end of the month.
That's great.
I'm going to give it a try.
I sell Avon and Stanley products,
I've got that worked out.
My husband, he's retired
he's going to deliver my products
I'll do my orders and that by phone.
that will be great.
I'll be able to keep that up a little bit.
I th ,
I think I'll enjoy (( doing )) ,
I bet you'll have some great experiences with them.
think I'll enjoy.
guess I kind of miss having a baby around .
A kid around or something .
why not.
the grandparents, I always hear it's always fun when you can send them home at the end of the day instead of having to, *
That's right .
they do say you enjoy them more,
That's right.
said if they knew grandchildren where so much fun, they would have had them first .
my husband's mother lives right over here,
she takes care of them sometimes,
for me,
just is a lovely lady,
I've always appreciated when she's sat with them.
My daughter,
always said she would not let me baby sit because you do hear grandparents complaining
Oh .
because they're stuck with their grandchildren so much.
the ones that complain a lot are the first
I know they have a waiting list and a quota on immigration now.
I've lost track.
I don't really know.
do have some opinions,
go ahead.
I know that real cautious about letting Middle Eastern people into the country now because of all the terrorism.
okay ,
I hadn't thought about that,
What all do you know about it?
I just have an opinion,
the terrorism thing was overstated,
there was nothing over here.
In fact even,
this is not our subject, I guess,
maybe it is or isn't, I suppose.
My wife when she talked about the Middle East
everyone's afraid, of how the war was going to go and everything,
her, no,
it's just not going to happen.
There's not going to be any terrorism over him,
there wasn't,
They just didn't have an organization,
I'm concerned controls.
I think that, the Asian gangsters that we've let in here
the guys from, Cuba, there's a lot of criminals down in Florida that we've let in from Cuba that Fidel pushed off on us,
the last,
out of all the Asians we brought in, there's a tremendous criminal element that we let in Asia
I think that
That's right.
there's got to be some sort of controls over that.
this Asia mafia thing is getting out of hand.
I didn't know what, I don't even know what our controls are.
I don't even know what, if we have any guidelines at all, on immigration.
I always thought that we did,
I don't know what they are right now.
one, because I'm sure all the people from Cuba have been released from that camp that they were in.
were criminals from Cuba
I think that was just an attempt Fidel Castro to undermine,
The, *
the United States to some extent.
he just released and got rid of all his criminals and sent them to us.
Yeah. *
it's almost the same thing from Asia, because
Because we,
of them was put out of business in Vietnam after the war,
do have some sympathy with,
of course we have this big Mexican problem,
not a problem,
I think that we need to do something with, the immigration of back and Mexico,
I don't know what the answer is,
I'm sympathetic certainly with that, they want to come over here
I guess hundreds of thousands come over every year to work.
they have jobs, I hear the story that they're taking away American jobs.
I don't know,
I don't know how many American jobs they are really taking away.
I don't have an answer.
I don't
I think that we should have good relations Mexico,
that's not really exactly immigration.
It is
it isn't.
I don't know to what degree we owe the people who come across before they're citizens,
owe the children education and all that,
although, the idea of education is an answer to a lot of problems in the world.
I guess it's what they,
Mexican kids get a good education along the way,
maybe that's a benefit to everybody,
a lot of the Mexican people just cross the border during the daytime to come over here and work
they have green cards.
like you said, a lot of,
I run into people every day that can't speak English.
most of them, are working in janitorial positions
don't know,
like you said, I don't know they're taking from the work force,
I never thought that they were much.
I do cringe when I hear some of the problems we've had.
of course you mentioned the language.
I feel so bad that we, here in Texas, or certainly the southern part of the United States, California, Texas, and all that, why our kids don't speak fluid Spanish, by junior high,
as well as us,
so that we have the language barrier certainly.
that is a shame that we have this tremendous border of Mexico,
in Europe, they speak their French and all
out of their way to try to speak their neighbor's language so they can understand.
we don't really even make an effort
to speak Spanish,
I feel bad about that .
Go ahead.
I took Spanish in school,
that's, one reason that I did it
is whenever you travel anywhere near the border, there more and more people speak Spanish.
I guess it's never too late.
do have some Spanish books,
I've always,
every year I say I'm going to try to speak some newcomers language,
I don't know if it's costing us any money
how much money they're putting into it,
that's always a factor,
the federal government is putting into it
it's basically on the,
I think it's mostly concentrated toward the borders,
it's more,
the immigration is tied in with, drug trafficking.
they have to watch out who comes in,
they're always finding drugs the most, innocent looking kind of
I forgot what they found,
a dog found it the other day,
on the border.
I think that certainly is a problem.
I guess our immigration history, that's a great subject.
They, didn't say to talk about that,
that is,
on Ellis Island, they,
you know they're redoing that and going to make it
That certainly was interesting,
since all of us had, ancestors that came over that way.
not all,
if you go back far enough you came over on a boat originally,
a lot of us have
my grandparents came over in about eighteen ninety or something like that.
I'm sure they came over, through Ellis Island,
That's right.
we all immigrants, one way or another,
we certainly are, coming from Europe.
things that really gets to me, about the Mexicans is that, once they have children over here, their children are American citizens then.
those were laws are unusual.
then they'll ship the parents back
that leaves the children without any parents.
I don't understand, whose rule is that, *
they, they just follow the rule no matter,
that doesn't seem fair to the children.
Yeah, *
sometimes common sense should take over rather than,
that's a law doesn't sound like it makes any sense at all
that you would do it that way.
You would think they could at least get a visa or something until they, get citizenship.
I'm sure they want to.
they granted them amnesty if they could prove,
if they could prove they'd been here five years.
I heard something about that, yeah.
a lot of them had been,
moved back and forth,
most of them don't ever want to go back to Mexico,
the way it was then.
you could see why.
I don't know how much immigration we have from Europe and everything.
What the controls are.
I think most, like especially the celebrities and everything, to get a green card if they going to do any kind of work, in movies
most of them have temporary visas.
I guess you can get work visas pretty easily,
As long, it's like
it's a kind of example,
when Rafael Septien took the job with the Cowboys
they had to offer his job to any other applicant that could do it.
So that,
that's the thing with the jobs.
of course no one beat him out.
He just ruined his own career,
it's still interesting after all this time that we're probably few countries that people are still desperately trying to immigrate to.
although I guess Europe, now that the Communism is falling apart, that maybe there'll that much of a rush to get out of all the Communist
I guess Poland is noncommunist
maybe not,
maybe immigration from Europe to here will change,
maybe it'll even out like trade,
So many people will immigrate here
so many of the people will go back overseas.
maybe it will average out,
I don't know.
I think so.
It doesn't seem so far.
there are other job opportunities,
in Europe that there aren't here
like players can find a job sometimes in Europe when they can't find one here.
I'm a trumpet player.
Are you a teacher?
don't any more.
I just went to school
I was a music major for a while.
I had a trumpet teacher that played in the Mexico City Symphony.
he had to have a work visa there.
of course they had a lot of musicians other countries
in the Mexico City Symphony.
I think, three out of the four other people in the trumpet section are from Mexico now.
I think from another country.
It's like any other symphony.
Eduardo Mana's from Mexico
he had to,
haven't really lived in a lot of big cities.
I'm living in Dallas now.
Plano is outside of Dallas,
I don't really have a lot of experience with air pollution.
I know when I lived down in Houston, on the outskirts of Houston, there were some towns like Pasadena that had oil refineries,
if you would drive by there, on your way to the beach or something,
there would just be (( dumping )) this huge amounts of smoke,
into the air
it always smelled really bad.
We know that, that was really, really, really bad for the atmosphere.
What have you got up there?
live out in the country,
that part is good.
we're maybe one hundred miles from Pittsburgh,
which has a lot of pollution from their plants,
right now in our area were fighting against a toxic waste incinerator. *
it won't be too for from where we live. *
everybody really has been, fighting against it, because do not want it.
we don't want one any place ,
we would like the, industry to do more to take care of the waste products before they turn to incineration, because we feel that, the small percentage that they're going to be putting into the air is too much.
so bad that there is just so much going into the air
the little bit you say that there putting in here and there, and everywhere, it all adds up. *
all the problems in the Middle East.
With all that smoke and,
that has to be terrible over there.
it's just, why are we doing this to ourselves .
I just don't know,
what really amazes me about, that Pasadena area and the oil refineries,
is that there would be houses and people living just really close to it.
between the freeway and the oil refinery, you would see a neighborhood.
you just thought, it's obvious that there's a lot going up in the air there,
what comes up, must come down .
(( )) .
all the time.
how, if they have all of those,
toxicity, there's signs around saying how dangerous it is
here you are living ...
Huh .
That just doesn't make too much sense.
I figure we're paying to take care of this toxic waste, no matter who does it.
they have shown, some of the industries have been real good at, doing their part in, reducing the amount that they have, *
they've reused some of it,
it can be recycled, a lot of their things,
that they've shown, that does cost more,
once they get started, them money in the end,
it cuts down on the end product that has to be dealt with some other way.
if they would all,
we want done.
we want industry to take, more responsibility in taking care of it.
individual companies and things are so selfish,
their desires to save a few dollars that
they don't care about the environmental impact,
that they make.
they're greedy.
It's money, is what is.
the money
They're making fantastic amounts on these things
even the incinerator, the money and the income that they're going to make off this, is, just astronomical.
have you ever visited, Los Angeles or any place that it has, pollution in it's air?
We've never been,
we went as far Las Vegas,
and Yellow Stone Park,
the whole way over,
we didn't.
(( )) .
I understand that,
we have an aunt that lives out there
When she was visiting here, she would look up at the stars
she said how wonderful it was to be able to look into the sky and see some of the things that she saw.
She said they couldn't see those things out there,
because of the smog and everything.
That's so awful.
what about in New York.
I guess you've gone that way, maybe.
Never been in New York .
I don't want to go there .
Pretty funny.
Have you been there?
I've been to New York.
I have relatives that direction.
We have,
(( where you are )) *
is it close to Phoenixville, Pennsylvania?
I never heard of that one.
I have family there
We're near Pittsburgh, Clarion University.
It's pretty neat.
kind of northwest part of Pennsylvania.
That's beautiful country up that way.
I know,
it's, very lush and pretty,
Huh *
It's really,
You sound very young. *
Are you a young person?
I'm thirty one.
Thirty one.
young .
Seems kind of old to me.
you're young.
You have a lot of life yet,
we have some people who say, this isn't going to affect me, this air pollution,
older people,
they think they're far enough away from something,
that it's,
they don't realize these things are going to affect everybody.
if you're older it's not going to affect you that way.
You have grandchildren,
you have children,
Nieces, nephews, whatever, friends.
everybody is going to be affected by it.
That's really true.
we all, need to be willing to help pay a little bit.
I've heard some people, grumble about their, cars passing their emission tests,
and things,
more expensive and things.
I thought, it's so much better.
They say it has really made a difference, though.
we don't have that here, yet.
you don't.
we don't have that testing in that down here, yet.
I have read that it has really helped where
that it has made a difference.
I really think it must.
I think every,
think about how many automobiles there are.
each is putting out,
we have a car,
every time you start it, from the tail pipe, it makes a black spot,
on the cement,
you know is a sign.
Something is coming out,
it's really polluting the air.
If you have to put a price on it. Which is more valuable, life or paying a little more.
of lot of the real terrible suffering like cancer,
and things,
We sure wouldn't want,
so much more people suffering from that.
like I said, I think you have to pay for it no matter what you do you with it, because it's industry.
We're paying industry to make the products
we're helping pay for there making these end products that are,
toxic waste.
Then, we have to pay for them to pay somebody to carry it away someplace,
then they put it in the dump some place
they find out, this dump doesn't work
we have to clean this up and move it someplace else.
We end up paying for it again.
Now we're going to end up paying for it again by having it burned in these large incinerators.
we're paying to have our air polluted and our water streams polluted.
Pretty sad.
the incinerator is right in the middle of
it just boggles our mind that they can consider even putting it there, because,
if that water gets contaminated, it will go on down to Pittsburgh.
It will,
it affects so many people.
it's just hard to think that they could allow them to do things like this.
It's scary .
It's scary.
It really is.
It's really awful.
I've really enjoyed the conversation.
It's helped me to think more about some issues that I need to be thinking more about .
It is really a concern.
instead of waiting until it directly affects me, like you say,
it's important to be involved ahead of time.
you have a good day.
you, too.
Thank you.
Bye bye.
Okay. do you have young children? *
I have got two.
One is, two
the other one's four
this is my first year of staying home.
I've always had them in child care.
then you are familiar with it?
have grandchildren
I know, preschool.
I know what the experience my daughter has faced with that.
Why don't you tell me what you have found.
with our second sitter, the first one didn't quite work out, there were some things going on that I wasn't really happy with
I felt I need to move on with them
I found another baby sitter
she was wonderful
except I thought that there were too many in the home
it just seemed like it was so hard to find, really good child care.
She was wonderful,
it's just that I felt that there were too many in the home.
It was
in home child care.
it was in home child care.
You took them to someone's home?
both times?
I worked the child care centers
I wasn't really happy with the particular one that I was working in
I just always had a fear about, child care centers.
that's why I put them in home day care. *
huh. *
I just decided that I was just missing a lot of their time whether they were so little
I couldn't get off of work as often as I wanted to when they were ill
I just decided it was probably best just to stay home for a while until they were a little more, independent
I could go back to work.
I know that in raising my children, I was fortunate,
I didn't have to work,
we didn't necessarily have a lot of things ,
. That's how it's going now.
I know my daughter,
she has three
to have three in day care, even though one of them's in school full time, one of them's, in kindergarten. *
That is a lot of money. *
it's so expensive.
You have to really make a lot of money.
I'm glad that she gets to stay home so that she can then participate with what's going on in their life.
bosses don't always seem to understand getting off to go to Christmas programs in the middle of the day or something.
I know that one of the day cares it's well known chain, she was not at all happy with.
too many children per person.
They were just kind of left to play,
there was no structure to,
the middle grandson went there as preschool thing.
She was wanting him actually to start getting a certain amount learning and training and stuff.
Not just there,
five mornings a week, if I remember correctly.
it was supposed to be a base,
starting to learn the colors learning to associate with children
so that when he went to, school
and stuff,
she was most unhappy with it.
There was no structure,
there was nothing to it.
she pulled him out of that one and put him in a, another one that was excellent.
like a little kindergarten.
they had hot lunches
they had classes that, one class they'd do art.
They even familiarized the children with computers.
a very excellent
how old was he?
He's now five and a half.
He's in kindergarten.
This was last year.
it helped him the first one, he went to a, church preschool
that was very good.
The Methodist Church in Richardson.
The big one
it was a excellent,
very good.
My little boy goes to the Methodist, in Garland.
does he?
I'm real happy with that one.
seem to be very well run.
heard that the Methodist ones are excellent.
Mother's Day Out programs, I heard, are real good.
that most churches, going by,
experience there, they were good.
I didn't know that,
I'm not that familiar.
I just know that, First United Methodist of Richardson was
just a great program.
this is First United Methodist in Garland
that he goes to
I'm real happy with that.
it's a pretty good size church, too, isn't it?
that's a,
are you enjoying staying home?
I am .
I taught for Richardson School District
I taught early childhood
I really enjoyed it,
a lot of my time
I noticed I was spending less and less time with them
it just seemed like they were sick more often
I just couldn't get the time off to,
isn't it very hard to teach young children and then come home and deal
it is.
with young children.
It really is.
And have enthusiasm.
it really is.
I felt,
could you tell me what you think contributes most to, air pollution?
it's hard to say.
while it's certainly the case that things like automobiles and factories, pollute a lot, if you look at how much pollution is say kicked up by an active volcano, it's certainly less than clear that anything man can do in this sort of scale of things has much effect at all.
What do you think?
you talked about, volcanos.
I'm not sure how many active volcanos there are now, what the amount of material that they do, put into the atmosphere.
I think probably the greatest cause is, vehicles,
especially around cities.
do you live right in the city itself?
I'm more out in the suburbs,
I certainly work near a city.
ca ,
How about you?
Can you notice,
I live in a rural area.
It's mainly farms and, no heavy industry.
Attleboro, itself,
I live in Rhode Island.
I see.
it's in the north,
I live up in the, northeast corner
Attleboro sits in just over the line,
where T I's plant is,
there isn't a lot of heavy industry.
There's the freeways
we get an occasional,
it depends which way the winds blowing from Boston, cause we're forty miles south of Boston,
we'll pick up that.
I've noticed over the past say, maybe five or six years,
we live about twenty miles away from the state airport
I notice that the fly patterns now of the jets are getting bigger,
they're swinging wider so that now they are coming our homes.
it seems like, we're catching all that residue.
I'm not sure if it's kerosene or what that's dropping.
other than that, we don't have emissions.
from the power plants.
You mean from the coal.
we generate,
one of biggest electrical plants in Rhode Island uses coal to,
generate electricity.
there doesn't seem to be much emission from them,
I'm not sure about the rest of the country.
I notice locally a major problem is Kodak.
it's interesting
in order to, keep with the E P A standards tend to be visible, what's coming out of your smokestack, they do all their emissions at night.
people get up,
is that right? .
people get up in the morning in that neighborhood
they've got this black ash on their cars,
which, seems to be,
surprise, surprise.
I really think that if the E P A had anything on the ball they'd go in there with a few phosphorous grenades, light up the sky, photograph the emissions at that point, and,
must be, larger plants around one hundred twenty eight.
we've got reports that,
during the night seems like they'd blow off stacks from,
the warehouses, for powerhouses,
they do that at night too, because,
employees been complaining that the cars have been pitted, and, spots all over them.
you're right,
they could do something about that, I guess.
That seems a little ridiculous.
How are lakes,
they've been getting cleaner.
They have?
I'm not sure how much the water pollution directly related to the air pollution, other than acid rain,
Acid rain,
what I was,
the stuff I've read recently in Technology Review basically indicates that acid rain may be a little bit, overstated. That a lot of the die off they've seen in forests may not really be due to acid rain at all.
ye ,
I'm not an expert.
Didn't they just have an article, on,
they were dumping lime.
New York somewhere,
I haven't read that.
over huge areas,
they thought that was more beneficial because, some of it does soak in
some of it runs off right away streams and rivers
some of the fish were supposedly making a comeback.
I can't remember where
read that recently somewhere,
I can't remember where.
that's interesti ,
thought it was up there.
that's interesting because New Hampshire,
and parts of Vermont, they showed pictures extensive tree damage that they attributed to acid rain.
you kind of think it's something else then?
that's what the environmentalists were claiming in this article.
what though,
they just said they thought it was,
They didn't say what,
they just said they thought acid rains contribution may be less than was previously suspected. that it may be other natural things at work.
natural disease,
less than clear.
Like I said, I don't remember the article that well.
I don't know,
what do you think we can, I guess as individuals or as a group, do about, air pollution? .
we can demand, more efficient automobiles for one thing.
I still think one of our major causes of pollutants.
how we go about that, a little bit difficult.
I think it's up to individuals too, to ask automakers for,
for less pollutant vehicles.
I think you need vehicle something like, Ralph Nader, Nader's Raiders, or,
or, A A R P, which has a lot of members.
if you can get those types of groups.
Do you really think that new vehicles though is a big problem.
I remember reading an article that said it's, the older polluters,
twelve and fifteen year old cars, contribute ninety percent,
of the automobile pollution
the new cars anything.
they're better,
how about all the trucks and buses that are out there.
when was the last time you saw a truck that didn't belch, smoke, or,
doesn't that just mean they're out of tune.
I'm not really sure.
You think that trucking is that, incompetent, that they wouldn't,
fuel one of their biggest costs.
you would,
diesel engines.
diesel engines.
they do generate a lot of soot
kind of particulate comes out of the air pretty quickly.
We could also, push for legislation for, rapid transit systems.
This country seems to be a little behind on that.
On the other hand most people don't use rapid transit because it's so inconvenient.
only because we got used to, single person, single car,
A lot of people don't even like to carpool.
we could that.
That'll help,
The, United States and Canada is, going into, some types of agreements to limit, what's being given out by power plants,
I guess Canada's quite concerned that we're sending a lot of our stuff up there,
that's helping.
what do you think about a device, a meter right on a tail pipe
you pay the tax based on how much you polluted?
that's an idea.
don't say that too loud though because, every city and town will have a meter on your tail pipe revenue,
it just means if you don't pollute, or you pollute very little you don't have to pay any tax
you just buy one of these things
maybe could probably devise them so it slowly closed off your tail pipe
the less you pollute the longer the devise lasts
if you pollute a lot then it closed off your tail pipe
you couldn't start your car anymore.
interesting concept.
Is that your idea?
I guess the difficulty would be that somebody could obviously just take it right off the tail pipe again
you probably would have to build it right into the muffler or something.
I was going to say,
you could, it could be installed like a catalytic converter.
I guess you could take those off too
You could take ca ,
mufflers would be a little more obvious if you took that off.
if you can take a muffler off and only replace,
not unless it was built into every muffler.
that's (( )) .
if you was talking about something which was more or less universal that, busses and any kind of vehicle,
had to pay a pollution tax, this would penalize the heavy polluters and not penalize the light polluters,
You should, pursue that I think, or patent it,
patent it,
that's a good idea.
If you could come up with a device that's the thing.
it shouldn't be too hard to do something like that.
you're right
that will solve, a lot of problems.
I don't know approached the automobile industry if they would be too keen on installing something like that.
a proposal to, I guess the proper authorities,
you might, generate some
the automobile regulatory agencies or something.
you might generate some interest in it.
a good idea.
Other than that I'm not sure individuals can do other than like I said get involved through a group or an organization.
What are your interests?
just about any kind of music except acid rock ,
don't care,
Me, too.
for acid rock,
I grew up with country and western,
I did, too,
just about any kind of music.
I even like classical music.
I'm pretty diversified, too.
don't, I don't like acid rock either.
grew up in a small town
had one radio station
it was country music,
when I,
I grew up with Hank Snow, and (( Lefty Frizzell )) and Hank Williams and all of those old country and western songs.
You're older than I am .
did you happen to see last night the special on Channel Two with James Galway?
We don't get Channel Two.
our cable doesn't,
I wish we got that what,
That is fabulous.
Was it?
we don't get Channel Two.
when he played DANNY BOY it just almost brought,
tears to your eyes, because he can make that flute sing.
it was tremendous.
is a,
actually, I did,
I played flute for,
almost ten years
I appreciate his too,
mus ,
he's from Ireland isn't he?
it was, mostly all Irish tunes,
Was i ,
they had a band with him that, had a harpist and another flute and then a guy that played the bagpipes plus the, tin whistle,
and a couple of violins and, drum,
played all the Irish jigs and so forth,
it was just fabulous.
he is really good.
I come from a musical background,
I've played flute and piano,
I have a appreciation for music,
up to a point.
getting now to the age where I don't like the new stuff that's coming an ,
much of the new stuff that's coming out,
my husband says I'm getting old .
. I especially like instrumentals.
Do you?
I love to just lay back on the couch turn a instrumental on and just close my eyes and listen.
nice to do, that is.
I've got a two year old who's now getting,
I'm getting well versed kiddy music .
never played an instrument in my life,
I've always wanted too,
I've always wished my parents had forced me to learn the piano or something,
I was one of the forced ones .
just love to be able to go to a party or something and sit down at the piano and bang out music
I could never do that .
I was never that brave
I guess the closest I've ever come to participating in music is singing in the choir.
I've done that at church too.
I haven't done that in a long time.
let's see
(( what els , )) .
what kind of music do you not like?
like I say the acid rock,
I just do not ca ,
I don't care for rap music either.
go ,
that's not music ,
that is not,
I don't know what that is,
that's not music .
If I can't understand the words I don't want to listen to it.
it's not, it's not music,
talking in a beat,
it is just,
it's not exciting at all
it doesn't,
it doesn't give you relaxation,
you can't dance to it,
you can't do anything to it .
I like orchestra music too. Like the,
D ,
Boston Pops or,
or anything.
Have you ever been the Dallas Symphony?
Have you?
Is i ,
are they good?
they're good.
Are they?
I have,
never been.
we went and saw, LES MISERABLES
the music in that was fantastic.
I've heard that that is a really,
I heard that was hard to get tickets to.
I can't remember how far in advance we reserved,
(( )) .
it was at the State Fair Music Hall
that was a real,
it was well worth the price.
Was it?
bet it was,
really bet it was .
Is that the only, musical,
do you go see a lot of musicals?
ever so often
good one like that one
would be, that would be nice .
I went and saw, I think it was, SUGAR BABIES,
that was good,
that had good music in it.
Was it?
know what that's about.
that was the one with Mickey Rooney
what's that old,
I can't think of her name.
I got it right on the tip of my tongue and can't say it, Helen something.
real long legs,
she's got black hair,
and dark hair.
I know who your talking about.
I can't think ever her name either.
I can't think of it.
that was,
I remember that being, here a few years ago.
the last country music,
parents still, really like country,
they like the Oak Ridge Boys and the Statler Brothers,
The Blackwoods.
my parents,
my husband likes, country music real well
likes some of the new groups like Shenandoah,
he really likes Shenandoah.
they're a bit over exposed .
I get kind,
(( )) .
of tire , get of every other song being Alabama on the,
either Alabama or Hank Williams, Junior.
never cared for Hank,
I never have either,
Williams, Junior.
I never have figured out how he won, entertainer of the year for about,
Oh .
three or four years in a row.
watch those award shows too,
we enjoy watching the country and the Grammies and stuff
don't care for him,
I just never have.
I don't,
I guess probably my favorite all time country and western song or singer is, probably Eddy Arnold.
think, know who that is,
I think my parents some of his records.
I had about a hundred and fifty old seventy eight R P M records of country and western,
Smiley Burnette, I don't know if you were old enough to remember
I've heard the name.
He in the old western movies.
He was the sidekick of Gene Autry I believe
I think his name the movie was Froggy
never seen a Gene Autry movie,
had a real raspy voice,
I never have .
some of those old ones, of course, Bob Wills, Miss Texas Playboys
Ernest Tubbs and Red Foley an,
those go back quite a way .
I took them up here to Collectors and was able to get a little money for them
It's hard to,
my and dad use to, own a restaurant,
a, nickelodeon, of course, in the restaurant,
when they would come and change the records give her the old records
that wou ,
that's neat.
that's where I got my,
that would be if they weren't too worn out,
at the time.
Of course, there's not a whole lot of market for seventy eight R P M records.
Is there not?
you'd think there would be.
the problem is most of the record players now will not play them because,
that's true.
you have to have
just won't play on a modern day,
that's a shame
we go to antique stores a lot
you see seventy eights,
lot the stores, at record stores,
think there'd be a market for,
sure you could find old players for them
that would cost a fortune,
if you could find them that worked .
Of course, they, just don't have the quality of records nowadays either because,
get that scratchy sound.
those things were big and thick weren't they?
You could kill somebody with them .
th ,
warped real easy.
the ones you buy,
go out and buy one now
they're just so thin and,
not meant to last,
at all,
are tapes.
bu , we buy cassette tapes,
machines will eat them,
the best bet, these days are compact disk,
those things are practically indestructible .
guess, the old country and western music you,
back then when I was a kid, there wasn't that much T V,
that's all you had to listen to was the,
you had,
we ,
I think it was better back then to,
too much T V now
the radio is, more exciting,
really, television,
kep ,
your imagination
yo ,
it just didn't vegetate your mind like television does .
I remember mother and dad always turned on the Grand Ole Opera.
Was it on the radio every week?
what day was that on,
you recall.
seems like it was on a Friday,
Friday or,
what do you think about the idea of, kids having to do public service work for a year?
Do you think it's a ,
think it's a pretty good idea.
I think they should either do that, afford some time to the military, helping elderly people.
def ,
I think that we have a bunch of elderly folks in the country that could use some help
I think that before we expend all our young talent overseas helping other countries we ought to perhaps give a little bit of our help to our own folks at home
That's true.
I'm not sure that that's not a bad idea
the military for a year or two,
wouldn't be bad for,
I think it teaches kids how to grow.
How about yourself?
I agree with you.
what I'm thinking about is back , when I was a kid, and much earlier than that, kids were kind of,
the parents kind of pushed them to join, the Boy Scouts or Girl Scouts
they did, do a lot of public service activities,
these days they're not,
aren't encouraging their kids to do things like that.
when I was in the Girl Scouts, we did a lot of public service things, because that's just part of the scouting, and,
that's really great.
really think that both the Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts is organizations.
They are
kids seem like when they get ten or twelve years old they fall out of that,
they do.
they don't follow it at all,
There are very few Scouts go on,
and become Eagle Scouts.
I don't know what the high rank is for the gals
there's not,
they're just not,
once they get into junior high it just,
lose interest.
not done anymore .
when they adults,
there's even less interest there.
They're more for, I g ,
Me .
walk out .
you're absolutely right .
I think it's a really a good thing.
like to see,
of course, there's, third world countries that can use all kind of help .
there's a lot that can be done right here in this country,
I think,
we ought to start right here at home.
so sure that would be such a hot idea a lot of young
since there is much that needs to be done here.
we need to really address what we've done here
perhaps even a six month tour overseas that gives them much broader outlook.
it's been really good.
We talked about this for a few minutes,
hopefully, we'll have other good topic maybe another call someday,
don't really have too much more to say on this topic, I guess.
agree with you .
I guess we both agree that it's a good thing,
that they should do sometime.
you take care,
You, too.
enjoy the day.
You, too.
Thank you, ma'am.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
on a exercise program right now?
I hate it .
How about you?
I'm kind of off and on.
Off and on
I guess I've been kind of off and on
Right now I'm kind of off.
Had some health problems that have led me to,
I'd say more on than off .
what type of exercise do you do?
I do walking on the treadmill,
I do low impact aerobics.
I guess you don't enjoy that very much.
Do you find that, to be boring?
and time consuming,
it's not just the exercise that's boring and time consuming,
it's, afterwards,
then you have to take a shower and get cleaned up,
I'm trying to get back in shape for softball this spring.
every year .
I haven't decided I want to play yet or not
I just bought myself a solo flex machine,
I don't know if you've seen those advertised on T V.
It's one of those, universal type
I haven't really sat down and used it match yet,
it's collecting dust right now.
a lot of things do that.
I had an,
I used to jog somewhat.
I had an exercise bike
I use to have one,
I finally got rid of sit cause I never used it,
I do use my treadmill .
that's good.
my parents have a treadmill
when I go visit them, I get on that thing every now and then.
it's nice because when the weathers bad have any excuse.
I just got the bicycle out today,
it was real nice outside,
had to get out to do something.
I can't ride a bike
I've been sitting in here in the house all weekend with a cold
thought I,
get outside and do something and not waist the day.
it's too nice,
it's been too nice all weekend.
I need to start again.
I've always of that to be, really one of the best forms of exercise,
it's terribly boring,
I really don't ever keep a program up consistently.
Have you ever had any injuries from jogging?
I never have.
I don't job enough I think to develop any injuries
I usually only go about a mile or two.
I guess it worries me about jogging that I hear that it's very hard on your body that, you can end up getting hurt,
tough on the joints if you jog on concrete,
or on asphalt.
Suppose to be much better if you find grass, dirt to jog on.
that's not quite so ,
You have to have the right,
so easy.
type of shoes too,
very important.
I found that,
true especially from walking on (( toe and fronts )) .
I don't have to buy jogging shoes all to often
my don't get very much use .
I guess my breakdown every six months.
I usually enjoy the exercise I do
like I said I'm just not very consistent about maintaining program.
I get into that a little while and maybe go out, on a consistent basis every couple of days and ride a bike for awhile,
then I'll get tired of doing that,
and maybe start jogging again and go out about three or four nights a week.
(( )) .
that gets old too in a very short order,
hoping that this, solo flex will, change things a little bit,
I really need to get on a regular type of program and use that thing on a consistent basis.
don't let it collect dust.
At least exercise while dusting it off .
Maybe if I can get interested in playing softball again this string I can, start some type of, regular program.
be good.
I've always found that, when you write things down and set goals it's a lot easier to something going.
when I was in high school we had a choice of, taking, physical education courses on exercise,
one of those involved a six weeks session on a universal machine, lifting weights and,
working out like that.
that was very helpful
we kept charts of our progress,
and, consistently increased the empty of resistance so you could see how much you improved over the weeks.
I found that to be, very helpful.
Are you going to do that?
I need to,
I haven't started yet
it's a thought.
that sounds like something good to do then.
Sounds like something I should do.
nice way to start off this spring.
Get back in shape.
How often do you, go out each week on your walking?
I do,
I switch every other day
one day I walk
one day I do the aerobics.
do you go walking?
I'm trying to get my tolerance now
I just had surgery, less then two months ago,
right now I'm just a little over about a mile and a half,
I'm trying to workup to three miles.
that's good.
they say that walking is just as good if not better then jogging.
longer to get to the same effect.
if you keep up with a consistent pace just to, keep the heart rating going,
My walkman broke,
I'm upset ,
I just have to turn to stereo up real loud .
it's a lot less stressful on the joints then jogging is.
it is
this doesn't,
my treadmill has an incline
you can get a really good workout on it.
do you go to an aerobics class
do you watch,
on T V?
I just do it on T V,
I have a cassette.
Which, shows do you watch on T V?
tap ,
I use tapes.
like a Cathy Smith workout,
Richard Simmons,
or Jane Fonda.
Okay .
Sweating to the oldies .
now and then I'll watch E S P N,
I get cable on T V,
they have, a couple of shows called basic training,
what is the other one called.
There was one guy I use to watch on E S P N,
I don't know if he's still on any more or not,
know if I get E S P N or not .
I use to on the air,
that was back,
BODIES IN MOTION the name of the one I was thinking of.
That's was,
With Gill.
(( )) .
I watched that cause he was cute .
he's not bad
his assistants usually aren't either.
They're always Hawaii some place.
the beach.
then that was back when, the high impact and,
do low I pact stuff now,
Do they.
they're on every day.
Are the ,
he's still doing it then,
every morning.
I'll have to tune in.
It's on E S P N,
at what time,
I can't remember what time.
I can't remember offhand what time.
I'll have to check it, check,
(( )) .
check, check it back up,
the thing is everybody always looks so good on that show, at least on (( )) .
every now and then.
Not everybody has a picture perfect body.
I found that have just a much better program than the other shows that are on T V.
I haven't watch any other ones on T V.
They're on weekdays at eleven o'clock every day.
Just on some of the tapes.
Monday through Friday incase you're interested in that.
I actually taped a few session that they had on there
that's a thought.
I haven't done so much as, watch the tape that I made.
I'm kind of bad about that myself.
that's thought,
I haven't thought about that,
they're going to beep us pretty soon.
I sure enjoyed,
Nice talking to you too.
to you about exercise and fitness.
all right.
Talk to you later.
Good night.
what would you say your opinion is on gun control?
I don't know.
had mixed emotions, I guess, when I listen to, the radio watch T V about the different, things that are happening.
I'm against it
on the same token, I went out and purchased a gun just because I wanted the right to do that .
(( Ye , ))
have a rifle in the house.
the ammunition is probably so old I'm afraid to use it.
I bought it for target practicing also because I wanted a weapon.
how do you feel about it?
I think, down here in Texas they don't have a waiting period on handguns.
I think they need that.
It's a little twenty two
I have a twenty two or a twelve gauge shotgun.
I do like to have my guns.
I don't know if I'll ever use it,
like you, my bullets to my little pistol's probably, about three years old .
my gun hasn't been shot in a year or two.
I like to have them handy.
in New England where I'm from, you had to get a permit before you could buy any ammunition.
I thought that was really good.
I think if they,
takes two weeks for that system to process, your request not as a gun permit to buy ammunition.
You have to get a permit from the police station in your local area to do that.
I've never heard of anything like that.
That would be nice.
a ,
the criminals that are going to get their guns one
way or the other.
I, I agree.
I think, one of the things that needs to happen is, stop the impulse buyer from, buying it quickly
maybe putting a week's waiting period or something on it.
if someone's really determined pick up a firearm you can pick it up any place.
you can get them really cheap.
I know
had a waiting period on my pistol because I was down in, Tennessee.
And, they had a waiting period
we bought it there.
How long was the waiting period out there?
About nine days.
That wasn't bad.
No .
you're going to go buy something, of that nature, I think going to have some idea as to what you're going to do with it.
You're not going to react that quickly.
In other words, you don't have a need to go buy a gun to go shoot it the next day.
Th ,
somebody wants to do that,
at times I think they ought to have a waiting period on all firearms.
I do too. because it doesn't make any difference, whether it's a pistol or a shotgun, I suppose.
They both do the same kind of job.
A shotgun hurts worse than a pistol does.
I suppose.
I never got shot with either one.
I don't know,
I think you could recover from a pistol but not from a shotgun .
a shotgun's got too much of a spread.
least ours does.
you have a little, thing of th , on top of the barrel
where turn it,
you can make it either tight or as loose as loose can get.
the spread changes.
I've got a manual single shot
I guess it doesn't have automatic features to it.
The further away I get, wider the shot gets
from the target.
the closer that I get, the tighter that it gets.
It's got a hell of a kick to it.
My husband had police gun at one time.
I shot that thing one time.
Almost knocked me down.
it just (( a li , ))
I think it was a three fifty seven.
I'm not sure.
Do you belong to a gun club or you?
He belonged to one awhile back.
since we moved,
we've only been here in Texas for about a year
we can't even find a place to shoot. Just for
No kidding.
target practice.
I'd love to get used to that shotgun.
We traded his pistol for that shotgun.
clubs that we've got around here are kind of expensive
it's well worth it.
You can go down and shoot up against a sand bag and some targets and have, competition.
I've never really joined a club because I haven't got the time. Not because I haven't got the desire.
there's an annual membership fee, fairly high.
there's fee that you have to pay because of first time, member.
the whole process can cost you a hundred fifty dollars to join the club.
you have to pay for ammunition in any tournaments that you would join in.
that's what my husband,
when he was in that gun club where he was doing that .
he went mostly just to, shoot at paper targets.
they used speed and accuracy and all that.
I think the gun clubs serve a useful purpose.
In fact, I'd like to see somehow they tie the legislation into not only when you buy a weapon you have to, show that you've gone to school or gone to some class to know how to handle that weapon.
That's a good,
I've never thought of that.
That's a good point.
even after you wait your nine days, if you don't know how to handle it, it's just like putting someone in an automobile that doesn't know how to drive.
you give him a license because he waited nine days.
not only, shoot himself.
mishandle a weapon. Leave it at home and let a child get at it.
was living on a navy base down in Memphis
this one guy decided to play, lonesome cowboy or something.
he was twirling his gun around and shot himself in his foot.
He was fortunate.
of hit something else .
he went tumbling down the steps along with, shooting his foot almost off.
He broke his leg and
collar bone and a couple of other things I'm sure, being,
Mister Cowboy.
I can't remember what was going around.
It was about four or five years ago.
I guess that would be a good idea .
About, private citizens selling a weapons?
if you wanted to sell your pistol to me.
How do you feel about that?
Do you believe there ought to be legislation guiding the, buyer and the seller?
do you believe that you ought to be able to sell your system,
because you own it?
that's a hard one because we did that.
I think there ought to be some rule against it.
the person who sells the gun ought to protect themselves because if that gun's registered to them and somebody else uses that gun in something, the cops are going to come to you.
there a way deregister yourself after you register a gun?
I have no idea.
I've only
had one gun
I've kept it, D you
know, the one gun that was in my name.
Is it registered?
I ,
rifle that I've got is not registered,
I don't know why I never registered it
I don't think you have to register a shotgun .
think voluntary .
my husband has a thing.
If they go to, guns. pri , private
my kid is jumping on me.
I can't hardly talk.
My husband feels that they'll come and collect everybody's guns.
I guess that could happen.
It's just like social security system .
Once gave everybody a number
now they're making you, get one birth.
once they have your number, they have your identification.
if you try to do anything, like, not identify yourself to the government, they know who you are.
And everything about you.
(( )) , that's true .
they know how much money you make a week to, probably your,
my kid is banging.
I was seeing what they was banging on.
I've lost my train of thought.
I'm sorry .
That's all right.
were talking about,
the Soc ,
government knows about people.
probably know everything from, half the time what time you go to the bathroom.
They probably do.
a little bit extreme.
they could know anything and everything about you.
I'd like to have my gun.
If they go to them, I'd lose my gun
we wouldn't lose
we're wanting to get a couple of more that no one knows about.
Do you find it difficult picking up, guns are not registered?
I don't either.
buy some, today if I wanted to.
W ,
put up the money.
you can look in
we got a thing down here called A SHOPPER.
ho , it's a, it's a bargain thing.
you go and always see guns in there.
Five to seven guns a day.
It comes out every Tuesday.
no waiting period on that.
None whatsoever .
You call,
we sold a refrigerator through it
it took us all of twelve hours.
To sell the refrigerator?
I'm sure it'd be even less for somebody with a good gun.
I think the Federal government really far away from, control.
don't believe in,
probably say control.
I mean regulation.
Control is something that I wouldn't want the Federal government to have.
I would like to see them have a monitoring capability so that they know who has what weapons.
I agree with you there.
They do have too much control over us already.
we could look at our paychecks and see how much control they have.
Unfortunately, vote for people who spend the money,
I can't complain too much.
I guess so.
I don't know.
They're ,
I haven't heard anything about the proposal myself,
I haven't either.
I don't know if its their proposal or one that's being seriously kicked around.
always felt for a long time that think that all young kids ought to do a stint, primarily in the military.
Most countries require that now,
they have, it mandatory
at least the young men,
I don't know about the young women,
I don't know if they have to serve in the military,
a lot,
you take Israel
everybody does.
I don't think it's a bad idea,
a lot.
I went in the service when I was eighteen,
And, stayed in for ten years.
Is that right?
did a lot of growing up.
I bet.
You have to.
my father had been in the military.
I didn't do it myself.
My father had
that's, how he put himself through school basically.
He came from a poor immigrant family,
he didn't have a chance to,
the family wasn't wealthy,
he had to do something to,
Do it himself.
put himself through school,
he did.
he was very successful.
my parents wanted to send me to college,
I was dead set against it .
I had wanderlust,
I got in,
wasting the first six years, partying and everything else, I decided, huh, time to settle down and do something.
I started to work on my education.
Course my job was such that do it as much as I wanted
still I ended up going two semesters when I got out just to get my degree.
That's pretty good.
I've been in school ever since .
That's good.
I guess.
I don't know.
There's other kinds of service to the country that could be done,
if you don't like,
working in the national parks,
working, clean up the roadsides
I've always felt that people on welfare should be required to spend
absol ,
at least some of their time and clean up the roads.
money that we're throwing away to pay people to go out and do things when we're paying all these welfare recipients,
if they're able bodied people, I don't see any problem at all with having them go out there if nothing else, get a group of them together and take them around to old folks
places and let them cut the yards, paint the houses.
we'd learn service to other people
Sure ,
in this country.
get something out of that money.
Country would benefit,
my next door neighbor when I was growing up, worked for the unemployment division,
his sole job was just tracking down people who were getting benefits and able bodied
That right.
had all kinds of horror stories.
these guys go down there and get their unemployment checks,
in those days they also use to give you, booklets good for, clothing and gas, and things like this .
They get all this stuff together and sit down and have poker games
I have a hard time dealing with that.
What I hear one time, radio segment, that he said that if the money that goes into welfare each year was to be given directly to the people without all the middle people in the government bureaucracy, each person would receive like forty five thousand dollars.
I was astounded.
I don't even make that.
I know.
you think about, you think about the layer of bureaucracy between the money and the recipient,
somebody's taking that away.
six or seven times that amount being spent on the bureaucracy.
no doubt.
it's totally ridiculous,
I, started out when I first got in graduate school
I was going into public administration,
quite honestly I just got so fed up with it I just couldn't stand it any more.
Is that right,
this is the kind of thing you look at.
You sit there
when you're writing up budgets, you wonder, okay, how much money do we need.
you need X number dollars for the recipients
you need X number dollars to administer the program.
just ridiculous.
This is ridiculous.
It's sad.
It is,
it's pathetic.
there's got to be a different way.
There's got to be a better way.
it'll never happen.
these people out here getting that money are big voting blocks.
What would happen if the (( )) required young people to do service to the country,
what should they get in return, I wonder.
there ought to be some kind of assistance as far as,
I would limit it strictly to something like tuition assistance.
Give an incentive.
Educational or vocational training or something.
Something that's going to help them along the way.
they'll help the country eventually, too,
because rather than having a bunch of uneducated people we can have educated people,
that's only going to help.
look at the statistics,
it's sad.
One in five Americans can't read
adults, that is, can't even read.
we've got the lowest rates of the civilized countries in science and math.
We're becoming a service country.
As opposed to what we were twenty years ago.
we were an industrial giant,
now going to do it because everybody is beating us at the game.
We taught them how to do it,
did it better than we do.
Simple as that.
because they have the ambition, I guess.
simple as that.
which is good for them,
on the other hand, we kind of lose out.
it's terrible for us.
I think that if, young people had service to the country might give them more ambition.
Because they learn that serving other people is a good thing.
it can be good for them, too.
the greedy kids that we've got now ...
god, you go to the mall
you see, fourteen year old kids flaunting money, because the parents give them money to go down and play video games all night,
I know.
for what.
I know.
Give me the money
teach them something good .
you know why they do it is so they can get them out of the house.
that's my other complaint.
Parents aren't parents any more.
relinquished their parenting.
One of the other subjects is do you think the public school systems are in trouble?
as a substitute teacher for a year, can say yes.
I talked with somebody else about that another time,
when I's in graduate school working on my master's degree in math, I was, teaching as program.
I just love teaching.
fun I had.
it helped me out because I learned
things and learned how to do things differently.
come time to get out of school, I thought, Boy, I'd like to teach.
I don't want to live in a little one bedroom apartment the rest of my life.
a sad thing to think,
that's kind of selfish on my part,
I admit that,
in a way it is,
you have to look out for yourself
that's right.
that's some ,
when we pay garbage men more than we pay teachers,
That's wrong.
I'm not saying that garbage men should be paid less,
I saying teachers should be paid more.
They do an absolutely necessary job,
have a great deal of admiration for these people who can go out there and do that.
a sense of priorities here, too.
we need,
what's more important, picking up the garbage or educating our kids.
. They both have their place.
when it gets right down to it,
one's import ,
on the other hand, you take a garbage man in New York City starts out at twenty six thousand dollars.
That's pretty good.
I bet you there's a whole bunch of homeless people up there who would take that job for thirteen thousand dollars a year.
my other pet peeve is unions.
it's ridiculous the way unions have gone.
There was a time when unions were needed.
they served a good function.
they served a good function,
there are enough laws on the books now that unions are outdated,
they're only there to perpetuate power structure.
I remember, the company my dad worked for, the people there went on strike against the management.
It was a steel manufacturing place,
this was during a time when the import steel was so cheap,
they were having a hard time.
they told the strikers there, look,
we need you to come back and get this stuff done.
else we're going to be out of business.
they wouldn't come back,
they went bankrupt.
they all lost their jobs.
it's like ,
that's really what happened to the steel industry in this country.
So many times, you had coal miners and steel workers going out at the same time.
that took care of that industry
That's right.
I'll tell you,
Detroit worked awfully hard stopping car manufacturing in this country.
they're trying to do that now with the imports.
we've never caught up,
I don't think we ever will.
It'll be a tough road, though.
here it is,
to go into partnership with the Japanese to build cars.
. they only did it because were embarrassed
that they're so good at it .
That's about right.
back to the original subject,
I think youngsters ought to go out and do some public service,
I don't care what kind it is.
It teaches them pride in their country.
and pride in themselves, too.
That's right.
you could organize something just within your community.
same old thing.
that's right.
That's like Eagle Scouts.
that's a great idea.
I think they ought to take them and, I don't know, just have sort of like a manpower pool and say Okay, look,
we need somebody ...
we're going to talk about the public school system,
What's wrong with it, if anything is wrong with it and what we can do about it, what should be done about it.
one thing that pops into my mind real quick is, about the, funding of, school system right now.
Evidently, a big problem.
it's amazing,
I always thought that teachers never got paid nearly enough,
to be doing what they're doing,
When I was in college enjoyed teaching,
I did some teaching part time
I really enjoyed that
I wouldn't want to go teach high school or junior high,
it just, all the problems.
Lord, yeah,
you talk about stress and pressure,
I tell you what,
they're putting in fifty, sixty hours a week,
I'm sure, because they've got to grade papers and get class stuff ready.
they're being paid, probably half what most people being paid.
we're paying basketball people, millions of dollars a year what,
That's right,
they, poof it off, do like Tarpley.
I (( ))
what gets me is I can't believe that can't come up with, some kind of workable means to have funds for the school.
I just don't understand that.
do you have little kids, or what?
sure don't,
my wife and I've just been married about two years
I have a sister that's a, school teacher,
my wife and I have three year old, almost four and two year old.
we're looking at older one going to school next year. not this coming fall but the year after that.
it's getting close.
he's going to be going to kindergarten,
thinking about that.
What's that going to be like.
Are they going to be taught nothing,
they going be taught something,
be involved in our child's education.
We're going to be teaching him what we can at home, of course,
because, I guess we don't trust the school system, which is very sad,
if it doesn't start at home, it's not going to go anywhere.
that's true.
we're going to try to teach him good values, because, when they get to upper level school and they start teaching them, hey, if you can play football or basketball that's what's important. Not if you can read or write, some science.
give me a break,
that's bogus.
one thing my wife and I've talked about, private schools.
whether, we would want to invest private schools as they're up, because, just in the Dallas area, we're not real comfortable public schools.
Dallas, school district just recently got an advised status because of their low quality schooling.
I couldn't believe that.
reason we bought a house here in Plano.
We were hoping, the school districts going to be good, for resale value, and,
so on and so forth,
I can definitely, see on down the road, where we do have kids and are getting to that age, that's going to be a definite concern.
the school funding.
I think there's only going to be one solution to school funding which I don't think will be necessarily the best way
I think what's going to have to happen is there's going to have to be tuition for grade school and junior high and high school kids.
That's the only way they're going to fund it, because if they start raising taxes for property, people are going to throw a fit.
taxes right now are political suicide.
I don't think any politician's going to do that,
the only thing, would think of would be tuition,
if it works at colleges it will work down below.
affect the people that are having kids in school, of course, which is probably the only fair thing to do.
it will be hard for those that people, that in school because they have to pay out even more.
it's going to really hurt middle class, people, I think.
Because, they're the ones that will probably have carry the brunt of the load.
That's right.
most of the problems with kids in school carrying guns knives and everything,
good grief what's (( )) .
just unbelievable to me,
I can't believe that.
when I was in junior high and high school that never happened.
You never heard about that.
even think about it, .
now, what do we have now.
got kids that, (( )) either got Magnum gun school,
good grief.
be afraid to or even being a student
think it going to be like for my oldest son, when he goes to school.
What's going to happen?
afraid for him to go.
there (( again )) , you can't hold them back.
Another reason, yo ,
you want to encourage them, be active and everything in school,
with all the peer pressure that's going on, with all the negative things, a tough environment to be growing up in.
and lot tougher than it was when I was going to school,
that was,
high school in nineteen seventy nine,
That was what, twelve years ago, I guess.
it's lot different now.
what's it going to be like in another twelve years when my, oldest son is in high school.
That's right,
that's right.
even think about it.
is a scary thought,
I don't know,
guess what you have to do is just, keep encouraging them try to be open with them, so that can deal with the problems as they come up.
. That's all you can do.
be your child's best friend, I guess,
even when they're a teenager and they, are kind of standoffish,
still you got to be their best friend because when they've got problems, who they going to go to, their friends that are dealing drugs, your parents.
if they go to their friends dealing drugs, they're going to be in even worse shape.
That's right.
the schools really encourage to stay away from that,
the schools are there to teach history and that we fought the civil war, etcetera, etcetera.
They don't teach them good values like drugs are bad.
wrong, because I haven't, been in that kind of environment for a long time,
it just is amazing,
need to teach them good values.
That's true,
that's true,
Of course, I say this is a good value, someone else is going to stand up and say, no.
the A C L U is going to get after them and have a lawsuit.
Which is going to take twenty years to resolve,
I think, you touched on it,
you've got to start them at the home.
get deep rooted values
That's all you can do.
that's about right.
Then you just have to hope and pray everything, okay,
That's right.
I got to be going,
hey, I appreciate the call.
Nice talking to you today.
You to.
Have a good life,
Hi, Wanet .
How are you?
I'm doing fine.
Where you from?
I'm from New England.
I'm from Berkeley, California.
This is long distance.
it certainly is.
Do you have any pets?
Use too.
Use to,
right now.
How come, you don't have any now?
You get tired of them?
live in an apartment building
it's not feasible
I'd love to have a dog,
I've got a little doggy, that I've had a long time.
In fact, she just turned sixteen years old New Year's Eve.
Is she?
I beg your pardon?
What is she?
She's, a poodle.
got my mom a teacup (( little mutt )) ,
not too long ago.
This is a little bigger than a teacup.
it's funny this animal.
when I was, married, my, ex wife had said that she had a friend who had a little puppy. That she needed,
the woman needed someone to baby sit
this is what she had told the kids
she even told me that.
after the two week period was up, she then informed me that the woman no longer wanted the little puppy and wanted to know if we wanted to keep it.
after you had an animal for a couple of weeks, you become
for sure.
you become attached to it.
I've had this dog now sixteen years
she's been a lot of company .
she's, however, getting a little old
things are starting to fail.
live alone now
she stays in the house all day while I go to work
she's been holding herself pretty well. up until, recently where she's been having accidents in the house because she either is losing control or she forgets where she is
I find a little present on the floor sometimes when I come home.
usually pretty good.
mother has one that's,
it's made such a difference for her.
just, I,
the way my mom's presence countenance is, for having a puppy
having this dog
she's had it for, I guess three years now.
possibly four.
it's it's really made such a difference for her.
I really would like to,
I'm a disabled person
I'm unable really take care of a pet
if that weren't so, I would certainly have one.
it frustrates me sometimes not being able to have a dog
(( yeah )) .
you might want to get yourself, an animal that doesn't require much attention. Like a cat.
I typically am not a cat person.
I have a friend that, has on occasion, brought her cat over for me to keep time to time .
this cat is like no other cat I have ever seen.
it would sleep on my chest,
a great cat,
personal preference a dog.
I don't know I would ever want a cat.
I like cats.
I just wouldn't want to own one.
you don't own cats.
they're affectionate
(( yeah ))
I don't know,
I can't seem to communicate with a cat like I can with my dog.
they own you
right .
grant you with you their presence,
we're supposed to appreciate them.
dog in the evenings, my dog greets me at the door.
I don't know that a cat would do that, .
I used to have,
a cat that could read me better than any human being in my life.
I could just walk in the door
she knew whether to quietly come up to me or to just run and knock me over.
she really could pick up on my mood
the way I walked in the door.
It was, uncanny .
think, in a way we're able to read each other pretty well because, she knows when I'm upset and I know when she's not feeling good too .
I know when she has an accident, I know she's not doing it on purpose.
when she was younger, she used to do that to get even with me,
some people might not believe that
I do .
Sure .
put her in a room all by herself and close the door and leave her there for a few hours, because I was going out. She would, break something or rip up the carpet or do something just to let me know that she was unhappy with what I did .
That's the way,
I had that cat that I mentioned, (( Alfie )) .
One morning, the first thing you do is you get up and you feed this cat you make sure that it can get to its litter box.
for some reason during the night, the door was not quite wide enough for it to get through
the next morning, when my roommate got up did not feed it right away, it decided it was going to protest.
it jumped up on my bed and anointed my blanket,
for me. at me eye to eye,
all the time while it was doing it.
All right. Have I got your attention now?
Animals have a way of talking .
(( Alfie )) did.
I tell you if I could have gotten a hold of that cat that day.
don't know trade my dog in for the world.
it was about two years ago she got sick on me
I took her vet's because she wasn't eating she wasn't able to jump.
She, lost all her activity
she stayed there for one day
the doctor called me up and said, she had a low white cell count and that, dying and, suggested that I take her to a animal hospital .
I took his suggestion
I, took dog to there
they said they'd keep her there for three days.
she ended staying there five days at a hundred and something dollars a day because she was in intensive care .
It cost me over five hundred dollars.
the vet sent me a bill for what he did
then she recouped.
She was okay for a couple of years.
she got sick on me again
I brought her to a different vet this time
I told the vet what medication I had given her and everything .
he gave me that I gave her the last time
she was okay
she's been okay every since.
It's been about two years now.
that's great,
it really is.
glad (( that )) she was able to pull out of it (( that way )) and so cheaply the second time.
problem is if someone would have came up to me and said it's going to cost you five hundred dollars to keep your dog alive.
What do you want to do?
I probably would have had second thoughts.
Of course, you would.
do is, is they say, it's going to cost, twenty dollars for tests and forty dollars for this
it creeps up on you.
You don't know that, .
you don't know what it's going to until it's all over.
to give you an example. My mom had an elderly cat who, whoever evidently got a hold of it
the cat got sick.
she took the cat to the vet
she had the cat there for two days
the cat died.
the doctor had called her up and said, your cat died
you owe me this bill,
by the way, do you want me bury the cat .
it cost her three hundred dollars,
she didn't get the cat back.
they had to pay for all the medical, bills that the cat ran up plus the burial expenses.
she just brought the cat in because he wasn't feeling good .
that was kind of a surprise
(( At lea , ))
You kind of wonder what really happened.
even the,
claimed they did the best that they could
then the cat, died.
My goodness.
looking for another cat for them.
I've got a little kitten, that's still, just being born right now.
another five or six weeks I'll be bringing the little kitten over my folks.
that, that will make their day.
think it will
they're both seventies. And, the cat, although it's a little bit of work for them sometimes, out to be, a pleasant experience for them.
I think they enjoy that.
Only work initially.
For cats anyway,
it's been a pleasure talking to you.
the same here.
you take care.
Bye now.
Maybe we'll talk again sometimes .
What is that sound?
That's my buzzer at the door .
I'll let you go.
Right .
Thank you .
what do you do to exercise?
s ,
I, weight train, three days on and one day off.
I, ride bicycles, , fifteen, twenty miles, I don't know, maybe three times, maybe four times a week.
I play basketball, couple times a week.
I play softball one night a week.
that's what I do.
What about yourself?
That's pretty impressive.
I guess I bicycle.
the amount varies
as much as a hundred and fifty miles a week.
I guess a play softball one night a week.
I backpack a lot over the summer.
about the extent of it.
I don't do any of those things particularly, for exercise.
I guess the bicycling is the one thing I'll sort of, do if I feel like I need to go exercise .
I do it mostly for fun.
what do you ride, a bunch of hills or pretty flat?
it varies.
out near my house is pretty hilly.
sometimes I bike to work which is about, a fifteen mile trip each way.
that's mostly flat.
How long does that take you to get to work?
about forty five, fifty minutes.
that out with, storing your bike and showering and all that?
it can be a pain.
basically, I work on a campus
I can store my bike in my office and walk across the, campus to the, gym, use the shower there
enough of a pain, that I did it consistently one year,
I would commute every day,
it just became such a pain.
we're talking, forty five, fifty minutes for biking,
and sometimes longer if you had adverse wind. And then another half an hour, to cool down and take a shower and all this kind of stuff.
It was a big of the day .
of course another hour to get back home.
I've been doing that less, concentrating more on, light biking when I get home on the evening and then, some more on the weekends.
Do you ride a lot of rallies or a lot of those around there?
Not so much.
I guess mostly I bike on my own.
I've got a touring bike.
though I haven't gone on any extended trips with it.
How about you,
what kind of biking do you do?
actually my wife just got me into it
I internship at the Institute for Aerobics Research in Dallas,
the Cooper Clinic,
I learned all the health benefits of,
I was a solid weight trainer,
all I did was weights and aerobic exercise
my wife got me into the aerobic exercise and said you really need to do it,
once I got into this, internship, I learned all the physiological advantages to it,
I began a program weeks ago
I did my first bike rally this Saturday.
I did, miles,
that's the longest I've ever ridden so far,
I usually, fifteen or twenty.
kind of hilly
it was pretty tough,
I'm looking at, doing a lot more of it because, my wife is really into it,
I see.
kind of held her back a little bit weekend.
She wanted to go, go, go,
she wanted to stay with me .
It's good to have a partner.
it really is.
Are you think of doing any, centuries, or ...
that would be cool sometime if I could, work up to that.
I just wondered if you were going to do that mostly or more like, touring from Vermont or, that kind of,
I mean people seem to get into different aspects.
One is more of a distance,
one's more, just,
they want to put some equipment on their bike and go for a tour.
I've never really looked into that.
my wife would just love that.
I may do that sometime.
There again, I'm just kind of a fledgling into this.
kind of funny.
I called this number
I was just reading through a bicycle magazine and going through all the different tours coming up.
around Texas, got about five or six,
if you live around the Dallas area, you got five or six every weekend to choose from.
that's nice.
Because they're really into it.
Bicycling is really big here.
I didn't know that, until I came down here, and,
kind of caught the fever.
I lived in Indiana all my life
you may say see one or two guys on a bicycle above the age of fifteen or something,
other than that it's nothing up there like it is down here.
I'm not sure why that is.
generally in the Midwest it seems to be
maybe it's because of the winters.
or maybe just because, a lot more flat lands, out in the West.
it makes biking a better alternative for transportation.
a lot of bikers around here.
really neat.
There are resources, a lot of magazines, and stuff,
little TEXAS BICYCLIST, is a little newspaper that comes out every month.
It's free
just go to the shop and pick it up,
it's got all the rides coming up,
I guess I'm going to be busy about every Saturday this summer,
that's terrific.
going to a different ride.
see a little bit of Texas I've never seen before.
how long have you been biking?
I guess as an adult for just about the past, three years or so .
I guess last time I did it before that was college, which was about ten years ago.
I guess I just never really thought about it much for a while, until I suddenly discovered all my friends were basically biking a lot.
I thought I'd try it, too.
Have blood workup done recently or since you've been biking,
I haven't,
to see if it,
improves your, cholesterol
kind of knocks down two of the big risk categories for coronary artery disease which is, low cardiovascular fitness, and also, the cholesterol.
It gives you increased H D Ls and decreases your L D Ls.
that's great.
definitely noticed it's had a good effect on
it gets it down to about forty.
That's good.
You say you ride about a hundred, hundred fifty miles a week?
hard core.
On average,
When do you get to begin with the winters and all that?
What time of the year do you usually embark on your,
do you ride inside if you can't ride outside?
I'm not that hard core.
there are some people,
in fact a lot of people will ride outside in the snow.
They've got a, mountain bike,
with the big knobby tires.
I don't do that.
pretty much lay off for the winter.
I was thinking of getting rollers for the last winter, because it will help your balance when you're indoor training.
I just, more or less stocked, an exercise bike and that kind of thing. ,
winters are kind of a problem
I'm more or less out of shape now that I've been biking, I guess, this year for just a couple of weeks.
up here , it's only stopped snowing since then.
, yeah,
it's, it's pretty good.
thing, I guess, for me is just to enjoy it because once it starts seeming like, exercise and a chore , I'll lay off it more.
you, change up your routes a lot, and keep a ...
I try to go someplace pretty different, every week.
I rotate around, about four different routes, from my house
I'll sometimes come in the school.
It's nice coming,
nice riding to school because it's all along a canal path ,
along the Erie Canal up here.
what school is it?
University of Rochester.
it's fairly picturesque.
it's a good ride
as long as you're not doing it every day, it's a good ride .
That's true.
Sounds neat.
It's kind of,
I was wondering if I was going to talk with someone that never has exercised before and doesn't want to and everything else,
got a guy that rides a hundred and fifty miles a week.
That's, motivating.
That's really good.
it was good talking to you.
good talking to you
keep up the good work.
you, too.
All right.
Take care.
far as, crime in the cities, I'm sure, like in yours it's bad.
probably the biggest thing we've got going now is the robberies
and theft and probably murder
are the two top ones that we have.
How about you?
I don't actually live in the city,
I'd probably say that's roughly right.
crimes against property seem to outnumber crimes against life,
think with the current war on drugs and all this kind of stuff I'd say probably the police department would claim the number one are probably solicitation of prostitution, and sale of drugs.
right, if you look at it from that stand point.
is there anything, that you particularly are concerned with in your particular area as far as security and that sort of thing?
where I live now not so bad.
I can basically leave my front door unlocked and not have to worry about it.
I do have friends that live in the city
I think that they get a lot of fallout from this war on drug thing. just because there are, crack houses, on their street and stuff like this.
Do you live in a real small town out in the country?
I live out in the country,
How far out from the city, do you,
I'm about fifteen miles out.
About fifteen miles.
I live in a little suburb, which twelve miles or so
it's pretty congested.
We are considered in the country,
it doesn't really feel like you're in the country.
Our major crimes in our immediate town, is probably
and very few instances of, alcohol, drugs, reported.
However, I'm sure they're there.
right now our neighborhood is running about, eighty percent of the homeowners have been robbed,
sometime during existence in that neighborhood.
(( That's huge )) .
since that time everybody's got some sort of burglar system or, burglar alarms
and including perimeter type, devices,
sensors and things like that.
It's cut back, considerably,
just shifts it from our neighborhood to another neighborhood to other neighborhood,
it still, remains city wide, high.
any theories on why this is happening?
I would say the majority of it's happening during the day, between probably ten in the morning and three in the afternoon.
Why is it happening?
are young
both people are working.
they're happening during the hours they're gone from work.
I would say that's probably their prime motivation.
stock your house and, look at your pattern and then go from there.
they're professionals?
they classify most of them as professionals.
you get a few of them that are a little bit sloppier, just taking, just junk items that can just get, ten to twenty bucks for real quick.
Probably the biggest items you get in our neighborhood, would be the high classed automobiles,
the, Mercedes, Volvos, things that they can get, big dollars for
and the jewelry are the major targets,
guns, that sort of stuff.
Very few, ante stuff.
what do you think can be done to reduce that sort of crime?
the police force, for one,
I think they could, definitely add to the police force and the type equipment that they use.
right now I think, we are about thirty thousand people
there's only eight officers that patrol for thirty,
for that amount of people
which is not very many.
that's going to tend to,
it seems to me that sort of approach will tend to simply make the cost of committing the crime slightly higher ,
in other words, you've increased the probability of somebody being caught a little bit.
The real question is how do you convince people not to commit such crimes in the first place.
course in our particular state, we have the prison overcrowding, whatever,
they're giving the early release,
They're doing that in our state, too.
I think what they need to do is stop building more jails and start giving stiffer sentences,
for the,
you think that would be a deterrent?
That would a deterrent.
not necessarily, give in to their, human rights desires.
if they're overcrowded, just keep cramming them in there till they just suffocate.
what about an innocent person who happens to have been found guilty?
I think they'd have to go to extra measures to make sure a person's guilty, in a lot of cases.
Course, know you can't be a hundred percent foolproof.
rather see it harder to convict somebody.
I'd rather see it a little bit harder and have a little bit more evidence,
to convict somebody
those convicted, especially of, murder major crimes,
to reach the life sentences and, death penalties and follow through with that.
especially, in the case of murder
I know in my case, were kidnapped,
during a house robbery back in eighty five
my goodness.
we went through the court system and all that sort of thing
two counts of kidnapping,
forty five to the head, just mental anguish and the whole nine yards
the guy only got five years.
he was out within two months because of the parole system.
sue him under the civil system?
Do what now?
Did you sue him under the civil system?
I'm not real familiar with that.
you could probably sue him for mental anguish or something, right,
and try to get money from him
the insurance companies and all that go after him
they said, he has no job,
he has nothing,
there's nothing that he has you could go after.
Makes you wish that indentured servitude, for this sort of thing.
very seld ,
they give the guy a job in prison and make him pay his damn debt.
They don't do that here.
Course they pay them,
you or the insurance companies never see any of that money.
that's too bad.
reluctant to go after him because they're repeat offenders,
they, been in jail before ,
they've been released, several times, which is another,
deal I hate to see.
basically the guy commits, three major crimes
think that's re ,
and car theft on top of it,
destroys my car,
we're out, fifteen thousand dollars
That's awful .
the guy gets out in two months
he goes out and commits it again.
Fact, he's back in jail now.
Gives you sympathy for the vigilantes.
deterrent does he really have?
I think particular neighborhood, vigilantism is becoming a possibility.
we've had a couple instances where break ins where the people have actually, shot the people
my God.
return offenders have,
they've actually waited for them, where they've robbed, particular neighborhood,
they'll rob one house,
then other people will wait up, and wait for somebody to do something else, try to take it in their own hands.
Course it doesn't always work out in their favor.
I think people are just getting fed up and saying, you can't arrest all of us,
you can,
you can get some of us,
you can't get all of us.
we're beginning to see more and more of that.
a deterrent, too. If you think the home owner might be armed, right, and awake
here you break in,
you're going to get shot.
certainly a possibility
we have had a few cases where the guy has broken in, during the middle of the night and gotten himself shot to death.
it helps for a while
then just another different set of people come in,
most of the people are transients from of the state.
I would say probably eighty percent of them that are caught, they're from places like up in Oklahoma, and Louisiana, Arkansas, across border.
people who don't readily read the newspapers in our town or whatever
it's not many from the local communities.
it's a problem,
I think that the court systems need to be more stiffer in their penalties,
would be a definite deterrent
giving the, police, agencies a little bit more jurisdiction over what they do catch these people.
tend to agree with you.
I think, what I would like to see is, number one, completely getting rid of these victimless crimes.
worry about these things where people are getting hurt.
I think one of the big things that you can do if someone is found guilty of a, felony level offense, they lose their citizenship.
they lose their constitutional rights.
just a lot of things that we're trying to worry about, protecting these people from, we just don't protect them.
I know in my wife's case, they made her feel like the criminal.
I know,
that's ridiculous.
went to ...
have you painted something lately?
I have.
That room I showed you.
since then we have painted the bedroom.
another bedroom.
I showed you that one too didn't I?
The brown one.
the one that looks like a fudgesicle.
I painted the outside of my house
and one bathroom.
that problem with ceiling, ceiling.
where you get around the edge.
that is hard.
I asked Janice, or somebody recently how you do that
when you paint the ceilings
where you have got that textured stuff, that they have special rollers that are real soft and furry that you paint that with.
how do you get the edge though?
How do you get the edge?
straight edge?
You just have to be real careful.
I see.
We use, a two inch brush a slant
that mostly does it even though you still make mistakes.
are you going to paint the outside of your house too?
I think I am going to do it this spring actually.
there are six houses.
the people that own the house they, pay for anything like that, that we do.
As far as materials.
There are three houses on this street the same color of yellow out of six houses.
I am thinking I am going to change it to, something,
the brick is multi color.
Mostly earth tones.
I think I am going to put something like a brown on it, on the outside.
that will be nice.
And maybe, a little deeper brown in the entry way or something so it will stand out a little.
What color did you paint,
There are some columns that could be painted a different color too.
What color did you paint your house?
On the out,
I have a problem.
I can't get up high
we can't paint the chimney .
you have got to get one of those ladders.
We have one of those ladders.
We are just not willing to get up that high.
A friend of mine that lives out in your neighborhood, he has done his house
that is what he,
I was out there last week
he has finished everything except the chimney.
we did too.
We did it in the fall
just too high.
It is really scary,
the only thing I would consider that,
other than doing our own work I prefer it to a professional.
our house in New Mexico, it was stucco,
we had all this trim to paint, and lots of it.
we did basically seventy five percent of the house
then I was afraid to do the eaves way up high and stuff.
I hired this man to come in and do it. A young kid.
he came his own raf ,
what do you call those things?
The blowers?
those where you built a rafter thing.
I know what you are talking about.
That's it .
He came and did it that way
I think he charged me a hundred dollars to finish up.
literally I wouldn't have done it with the scaffolds because
all the places that I had left for him were above huge humongous cactus
if he fell, he was dead
he knew that .
that was worth it getting a professional
for that.
he cleaned up my mess.
I think that is what we might have to do with this chimney,
other than that, it was pretty easy doing it ourself and caulking it and everything ourself.
It wasn't too bad.
you think,
How much did it cost you for the paint for the outside?
Shoot, maybe a hundred and fifty.
Since, it is a one story,
we did, two heavy coats over it.
then that way
you are assured you did a good job than you are, if you hire someone to do it.
that friend of mine that painted his house out there in your neighborhood
he went buy his paint
yet he bought seventeen gallons.
My word.
anyway, checked out
They only charged him for one gallon of paint. thirteen bucks or something.
my word.
he had already carried a ladder outside
and told her that
she wrung all that stuff up and made a mistake on the price of the paint
she had to start all over again
when he got outside, he noticed his receipt was thirteen ninety nine or something.
my word.
he saw (( )) .
that was really worth it. Painting his own house.
it was over two hundred dollars worth of free stuff.
my word .
my word.
he really saved in that way.
I think we are going to do, another bathroom,
I think I will probably just do it, in a roller.
I want to do it about the same color. And just be a little,
Rollers are so messy.
We never (( )) any more.
I know.
textured wall.
a little paintbrush,
So what do you think?
the causes of crime?
. I think it was imbalance of power in the United States.
It's causing the lower class to rebel.
That's why there's su , such high crime,
and, there's crime in, young people because they don't have ro , role models
see too much crime on T V
and they think it's the way to go.
I don't know.
What do you think?
What about,
I agree with the upper and lower level, you know
because that's the lowest thing for themselves,
plus there's nobody for them to look up to.
But I also blame some of it on parents
because parents aren't parents.
Because I remember even when I was growing up,
I'm thirty five
I remember when I was growing up,
and I had friends,
they used to do stuff like, you know, go over to a store and steal stuff.
My mother warned us, it's like, I don't care what your friends do.
If you do it, then that was it.
And I knew that I would get in more trouble from my mother than from
From anybody else.
from anybody else.
And I think
that's the basic, is they have no morals any more,
so they don't care.
I think I can agree with that too.
But now, as far as what they can do about it, I don't know.
You can't make parents be parents .
That's true.
You got to kind of make people want to do the right thing.
You know.
I don't know how you do that.
I guess if you gave the, gave them jobs,
that's another problem with the United States,
there's no jobs any more.
Well, I've heard this one theory, that if, that if a kid commits a crime, that, instead of the, prosecuting the kid, they prosecute the parent.
Or both of them.
That would work to a point,
Now, to put the blame on the parent.
Well, that'd work to a point because some kids are just bad anyway.
I don't care what you do to them.
You know,
so I think it depends on how much trouble that kid has been in, you know.
Because a, a, a child can get into anything regar ,
I don't care how good you, they are.
Eventu , at least one time,
but now if this is a repeated thing,
here with this child in juvenile,
and or, to me, yeah, both of them.
Because that means she's still not doing what she's supposed to do.
Because I just watched it on T V one night on one of them, Twenty Twenty, Forty eight hours, one of them shows
where this boy had been stealing cars.
I don't know
if you seen this.
(( )) it was a little, it was a little gang of them
I didn't see it.
stealing cars, you know,
I understand.
And then when they caught him, you know, his mother sitting there,
now they going to take me away from you.
That meaned she was warned.
But see, by that, I think sometimes it's a little late.
You know,
but I'm sure there's something can be done.
What about with adults?
Anything do any about (( )) adult crime.
start prosecuting they
but really good instead of having a revolving door on the damn court system.
Well, for one, a major problem with that is the jails are overcrowded.
Well, they should start with, the,
if they would get rid of.
Seems to me, I know there's a lot about court that people don't understand.
There's more people in jail right now for child support, okay
then there are for people doing drugs.
You ought to take all them little misdemeanor people
let them go,
let them go
you know, give them a fine, whatever,
make them do civic duty whatever,
I mean seriously,
Put them fools in there,
they ought to put those (( )) people to work.
I call them all fools, idiots, whatever.
Little rock stars, put all them in there.
You know, the murderers, the drug dealers, the user, put them all in
you know,
and let all the normal people go
you know, because, okay,
if you write a bad check, you go to jail, right.
Let them people go.
Not let them go and get out of it.
they, you still have to punish them .
Let them go and pay their crime or their time doing something else
you know, like cleaning up the city or however they do their
community time, you know, whatever that is .
But pu , don't put them in jail because they're not hardened criminals.
and they're, they're still, they can provide for society,
whereas some of them are so far gone that they can't do anything good for society.
I don't know,
some people, boy, they got,
I think the United States has got too many problems to be worrying about everybody else.
that's true.
Now how they going to fix it, I don't know.
I don't think there is a ready solution.
I don't think so either.
Because the economy is down, people, you know, the, the, the low man on the pole is getting more of the, I guess, the bulk of it.
And he's got to work extra hard just to make ends meet.
And they keep taking more money from us
and people are get,
and they don't have any incentive to work if we're just going to take fifty percent of it.
Might as well steal,
then they don't have to pay taxes on it .
That's it.
So, you know, they, I, I, I know that's bad, but, you know, just like Texas now.
They could have had a lottery.
They don't want a lottery.
Why not?
I would rather pay for a lottery
They'd have a,
a dollar, two, three dollars, whatever I'm paying, you know
a week or whatever, and never see any of that money, than to have them take a portion of my paycheck.
Because, you know, they take,
and Uncle Sam takes his,
the Social Security which probably won't be here when I get that old
you know.
Because we're paying for Social Security they using now.
Who's going to pay for mine?
I don't know .
But it's, it's
I'm not counting on it.
you don't count on Social Security.
But, it's, it's,
that's what I'm saying,
they need to do something else.
Crime is going to go up as long as the economy stays down.
And it's going to get worse.
That's just like last night they killed them people in that store.
Where you at?
I'm in Raleigh, North Carolina.
Oh .
No wonder you don't know that.
Well, where are you from?
I'm in Dallas.
But last night, they killed, four people in a chain food.
Oh, man.
And killed them,
well, it was two stores side by side.
One was a store and one was like a, a fast food place,
(( )) chicken or something, I don't know.
Anyway, they raped the women, beat them all up, including the women,
I mean, they just beat them.
Stuck them in the freezer and then shot them all.
Why was, you know, why
Why did they do in the freezer?
you know, why didn't they just,
if they was going to lock them, just lock them in the freezer, take the money, you know.
They didn't have to kill them or rape them, or anything.
That's awful.
we still get some in Raleigh.
I mean, not
not too often real bad ones,
It's just getting really ridiculous down here.
I wish I could move somewhere where, this, you know, you got to like in the country.
I don't think there's anywhere where there isn't going to be crimes.
Well, I think, if it's,
the town is smaller
and everybody knows everybody
it's harder
to come in there and do something.
Where is,
and, and, and see that's another thing.
Neighborhoods aren't neighborhoods any more.
There's nobody is next door to you,
you don't know your neighbors, and stuff like that.
It's just, huh you know,
because I moved out some apartments before because they were loaded with drug dealers.
And you didn't even,
and what the manager, the manager won't even do anything.
He's probably a drug dealer himself .
You never know.
You don't.
And so I moved,
because I moved the day probably a week after one of the apartments blew up
you know,
and this is like across the street.
This was a nice part of town
and there across the street one of the apartments blew up because they were having that, making that, crack stuff
and then, the other time I saw the cops break down somebody's apartment around the corner.
I say, See, this is it.
Time to go.
That's it,
and I moved.
And, you know, now I live in like a fam , a neighborhood in a town house,
but it's nice.
I don't, you know.
I'm kind of in the same, same kind of deal, town house in a neighborhood.
It's pretty nice.
I don't know how they can live, a neighborhood or apartment complex.
That's what happen, that's what wrong,
you know.
I don't think, don't rent to them .
Or rent to them and evict them because they drug dealers.
Put it on the lease.
If you deal drugs, you can't live here.
Most of them are too scared to do anything about it.
That's it.
All right.
Well listen, I got to go.
All righty.
Nice talking to you.
And I thank you.
All right.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
all right.
as far as I'm concerned, I find that the young women have lost so much because they have become more aggressive and more dominating,
and I think that comes about from their being a definite factor in the job market now.
Oh, well, I tend, I tend to agree.
in some ways I think it's, I think if anything, a lot of, the changes that have occurred,
in some ways they're for the better
because I think women should have a choice,
and I do believe in the, being able to have a choice as to, as far as, what you would like to do with your life.
But by the same token, and I know this for myself because I've worked and I've not worked,
that it makes it, sometimes it makes life more difficult.
I think when the roles now are less defined, as far as, you know, what, women should or should not be doing, that it, it, it could make life more difficult.
There are more things to work out.
I know when I was working, you know, you have all these problems with, with the child care and, and with, pleasing, you know, your boss on the job,
so you have added stresses from there
and then you still have all the things that, that you need to do at home
and that doesn't change, you know,
just because your going out of the house for so many hours a day doesn't, make those other things go away
and the other responsibilities are still important.
so, have you, have you worked outside, also and, feel that, it, that,
well, how do you feel, as far as,
what would be a happy medium
or, or what would you like to see? .
I would like,
I have worked outside of the home
I was in one of those safe occupations.
I was a school teacher,
and we had one child when I taught for my two year career.
huh .
then I stopped teaching after my husband's bus , business was established,
and we had two children
and I stayed home with those children,
and raised those children
and now that my husband has retired, I am back substitute teaching,
which if anyone has ever been involved in that, some days it's fun
and some days you wonder why you're even bothering,
Right .
because your fighting for your life.
But, I am a fighter
and I've always been a disciplinarian.
I'm, I'm not real sure that the young girls of today are being forced into the job market as many of them imply.
I think they're going in by choice.
Oh, I think so.
And, and I have no problem with that,
but I think the male needs to be the dominant person.
And I think too many of the young professional wives in our small town of five thousand,
are not letting that happen.
They are very aggressive.
They're, they almost have what I would call a killer e , killer bee instinct.
And they have to be in charge.
and I th , I think they lose a lot by what I call neutering their husbands.
Well, what do you think,
I don't know.
the, the one problem I guess I have,
and maybe what so many women, younger women now are choosing to go outside is,
I feel that in general, in this society, that being at home is not looked upon as, a job in itself.
Whereas, you know, you hear a lot of women that are home saying that it is a job in itself,
but I know when I was working,
and I was a , an engineer so I was always with men,
and they were single, many of them,
and I tried to explain to them, well, my day doesn't end when I leave at,
I used to leave at three,
I keep going to eleven at night
and they had, they used to look down on women that were home,
they'd say, oh, I bet you go home and,
you know, at least you get out of here at three
and you can go home and put your feet up and watch soap operas,
Oh, sure .
and I used to be infuriated,
because they really had no idea what was involved once I got home.
Now taking care of them, running them everywhere, helping with homework, the bath, the whole, you know, everything.
and I think that one reason that so many younger women feel im , i , compelled to go into a profession is that they feel that if they stay home they are not respected,
and that being home is not a respectable, position in society.
And, there's a lot of truth to that
and I don't know how you feel.
I don't know how you felt when you were home and what kind of feedback you got,
but I can see with the younger men that they definitely are looking down upon women that are home.
And yet by the same token, I think some of it is jealousy,
you, you,
once in a while, you hear them say things like, I wish I had the choice,
you know.
I wish I was the one,
I would stay home with my kids if my wife would go out and support us, .
If my wife had an education and could support us,
and the only value I see coming out of,
this is that children now in, in a two parent home, they now actually have two parents,
because I see my sons in law,
I have a daughter who's a nurse
and I have a daughter,
who's a beautician.
And I see,
my sons in law cooking and,
dropping children off at the sitter and,
Right .
picking children up from school and,
and having a much better relationship with their children,
That's true.
than my husband ever did
because he,
That's true.
left home at five thirty in the morning,
and he got home at six fifteen.
And, he ate his dinner
and he was asleep in his chair because he was exhausted.
So, now the young fathers are having a chance to parent,
and I think,
And they enjoy it.
that's an advantage.
And they do enjoy it.
I see,
you're right.
I see many more men in the supermarket,
in the parks with their children,
and I think that is healthy because ch ,
And I think it's a, a wonderful advantage for the young, for the, for the, particularly for the males, for the little boys to have,
Oh, yeah.
a relationship with their father,
and, and I don't,
think you, we get into so much of the mother dominating figure, if, if the father has more input there.
But, I don't understand why the young girls feel like they have to build roads,
and they have to,
(( )).
that kind of job, to go out there and shovel that tar and, and drive those big trucks.
And we just recently finished a long drive through the west, a little over five thousand miles,
and at one point we sat down,
I didn't realize it,
but I sat at a counter to have a cup of coffee that happened to be for truck drivers only.
And here's this young girl with the tattoos
and she w , has just, had just driven a load of meat from Minneapolis to some place in Arizona,
and she'd been,
and I ask her how old she was
and she was the ag , between the age of our daughters
and she had been driving,
a truck for seven years.
And I thought, gosh,
I mean,
why would a woman choose that rough and tumble life style when,
I guess I'm s , I'm a , maybe Victorian
and my husband is a little bit of a male chauvinist,
in that,
he's a very considerate person,
but he also thinks a woman should be taken care of and, and in the home,
and she should vote,
but after she talks to her husband about how she ought to vote.
Oh, boy .
Now it probably doesn't work that way in our household because I have strong opinions about things,
but, I like being taken care of.
I like my luggage,
carried and, my door opened,
and I think the young women are losing that
and I think that's sad.
well, that, that's true.
There is that part, too,
and I guess we also have to examine though
and although your husband's probably been as much conditioned as, you know, anybody else,
He was raised in the south,
I think that's a little ((war)) condition, .
I guess ha ,
Oh, oh, yeah.
And, and you have to, I guess you have to question too, why a lot of the men, especially, I think middle age and older men, why they feel that way
and, and I think it gets scary for them to see change, also.
They've been used to being, really to be honest, in, in society, and in a way, number one,
and they come home
and everything's done for them.
And their meal is served
and I think it's frightening to them to see the roles switching.
And I think, I think this reaction comes more out of fear.
Now, my husband is, he's ten years older than me,
but he has, his attitudes are very much pro women, pro career, which is kind of interesting.
He comes from a culture where women are, stay at home and do everything,
and yet, he's the type that he is willing to have to take on more responsibility, if that meant, , you know, for me to be able to, advance or go back to work or whatever.
I'm kind of more,
, thank you,
I'm kind of more middle of the road.
I think that when children are small, I think it's okay for women to work especially,
there should be some, a lot more part time,
but I think it's,
I don't believe in this career, you know, this career drive when, when they're small, because I think,
, they're downstairs ((Aaron)),
I think that's very, unfair to, to children,
like, engineers usually work fifty or sixty hours a week,
I refused to work more than thirty.
I was part time
and even that was a rat race,
but I think you have to put in perspective, that, you know, when the kids came home from school, I wanted to be here.
I didn't want, I don't want a job where I'm traveling around and an , I'm away and,
so I think you can have both.
It's more hectic,
but I think you have to put into perspective what your kids need,
I think a lot of,
first then ,
my problem with the young mothers i , ...
Talk about the activities that we don't do .
I, I don't have any children,
but I, I have a lot of friends with children
and I know they spend a lot of time with them.
Which is good, you know.
That's good to hear.
an, I haven't,
well I've been around a lot of people lately at wo , at my job that don't have a lot of values .
So, it's, it's always nice to see people that like each other,
and like families that get along with each other and like to do things together.
ye ,
ha , have a lot of values,
I love that.
Do they have children?
the one, the most valueless girl doesn't,
but she's married,
and I, I'm not quite sure why.
I, I think he said that he'd give her a big ring and she got married to him.
Oh, that's wonderful .
But, it, it's kind of weighed on me
and then the other day my husband and I met a couple who, who,
they're just going to have their first child
and they really like each other.
And they're real happy with one another
and she says things like, I'm really glad when he comes home
and there's not enough time to spend with him in the evening
Oh, that's neat.
I'm like, really.
That's good, you know,
I like to see that.
You know, I have, some friends that,
first of all, the girls joined,
they have two girls,
one joined the Girl Scouts
and the other was in the Brownies
and then the mother got involved as a leader
and then all of a sudden the father was getting involved with doing nature hikes for them and working with the Girl Scout camp he , here in Dallas and then going out to, Betty Perot camp and working with the horses and stuff
and they're gone a lot
and they take their girls
and they go away for weekends and in the winter time even, you know, to do work with the Girl Scouts
and I think it's neat.
Oh, yeah.
You know, they've really become very much involved in, in just that one organization,
which the organization can use the help too.
So, I, I wish I could see more of that, you know.
On Sunday we just met, a family,
we were thinking about getting (( )) cat
and we went over to, lady that breeds them here in town
and, her daughter actually was,
he , she said that her husband said to her daughter, you need a hobby,
so, she chose the cats.
And you can tell, it's a family hobby.
The , they're all a part of it.
And it was really neat because they all were interested in each other and, and the cats
and they raise champion cats.
So, they've done really well.
those are neat cats, too.
I've just learned about that breed.
They're really nice looking cats.
I have seven cats
but they're all mongrels .
Well that's what we're going to end up getting .
Well they're the ones that need the homes.
Oh, yeah.
You know, mine were just all, strays in the neighborhood.
Little baby kittens dropped and stuff
and it just kind of built.
One at a time, just kin ,
I couldn't, you know.
One time two of them came at once
and I can't turn a hungry cat down.
Oh, I know.
So, you know,
and the last one that I pic , was here,
the kids brought him over and said he was injured
and it was winter time
and I said, I just can not have another cat,
I just can not have another cat
and I looked out there
and he was just laying on my lawn just shivering and all,
and I said, I can't stand it,
I brought him in so.
Those are my children.
We don't have very many activities
I know what you mean,
our cat hates other cats,
and, th , we've tried to get her to like other cats
and she just, she wants to be around human beings
and she does not want to be around other cats.
So our next,
we're going to try it with a kitten and see if her maternal instincts come out.
Ha, ha, lots of luck.
Is she spayed.
Oh, yeah,
real maternal .
We're hoping,
it's our last hope .
She'll eventually,
I mean, mine, you know, I have five males and two females.
Everybody's spayed,
everybody's neutered
and we still have a scrap every now and then.
Nothing real bad, you know,
a slap here and there,
but, they put up with each other
and they will eventually.
He , her nose will be out of joint for a while
and she'll hiss and growl and slap every now and then,
but they'll, she'll finally accept it.
You know, they really don't have any choice .
They mi , ,
In my household, we have a little bit, of, a fight for whose boss.
I mean a male cats are, are re , you know, real territorial
and so that's the big battle here, you know,
of whose, whose top dog, we , top cat, I guess.
You know, but,
we , I don , I don't know,
I don't have a problem with it.
I think they just learn to accept.
And I have two dogs too,
and they've slapped the dogs around too .
Every now and then,
That's true,
they've got to keep them in line.
but she'll accept another cat eventually.
As long as you make her feel, like she's still loved and everything,
well those (( )) cats were great.
They were fourteen pounds and,
And they'r ,
oh, they're just gorgeous,
but, yeah,
three hundred and fifty dollars for a kitten.
Oh my gosh .
And I think of those,
I think of the kittens at the pound.
Three hundred and fifty dollars .
and they are lovely
house payment .
That is a lot of money.
and then she's saying, you know, you can't let them outside
and you can't do all this stuff
and I'm like, ugh, you know.
I don't let mine out anyway,
I let two of them out just in the back yard every now and then,
but my cats are insi ,
I'm afraid, you know, the neighbors will,
people throw rocks at them,
and people run over them
and, I, I just, you know, I just don't.
I know so ,
and, and now they've lost the desire.
Most of them don't even try to ge , you know, to go out.
I just have two that drive me crazy,
that I let out in the back, you know,
but I won't let them get,
if they start going in the front and stuff, I bring them in.
You know, I just worry,
I guess I'm too protective,
but, you know.
I see these cats that are wandering around the neighborhood
and too they can catch diseases really easy,
just by touching a nose to another cat they can contac , leukemia, feline leukemia,
We know we try, try real hard to keep them healthy.
we just bought, acre, a house with an acre to try to, so she'll have some room to walk around,
Oh, how neat.
and not off of a busy street.
We're, we're choosing our house for our cat.
Isn't that bad .
People do it for their children ,
I mean, why not.
Oh, them too .
Well you know, why not,
why not.
We , because I, she loves, she's one of those that loves th , outside,
and, and she doesn't go far
but she just wants to be able to have that freedom.
well if you're off, off, of a, you know, away from a road,
You're off of the main road, you said?
Away from a road, you know, and you keep an eye on her, it's probably okay.
I'm just real,
I don't know, I guess,
I'm in a neighborhood
and it's, it's just real tough on animals here, you know.
it gets hard, especially with the cars.
Whe , I, every time I see one run over I just, you know,
it makes me sick,
so, you know,
Oh, I know.
but anyway, we kind of got off the subject of children,
except that I consider them my children .
our cats are our kids
I, we, we got married a few months ago
and I'm like, well why can't Ashley be at the wedding .
Oh, no.
In, in her little bridesmaid dress .
you know, if I could have, I would have.
Well I'm sure it's been done.
I'm sure it has been done.
Well they have weddings for dogs now and cats
you know, they have all that parties for them where they dress up.
I've seen it in magazines and stuff where you dress your animals up and take them to a par ,
Oh, my.
I haven't gone that far.
I'm not that bonkers.
No .
You know, my cats do not wear clothes,
an ,
I, I don't think they'd like to.
I put a bow on her one ni , one day
and Jerry just kept saying you are the meanest person .
I took a picture of her
and that was all it, all it lasted for.
We , d , do any of your friends have, have, older children that they do anything with.
Do, do you have friends with older children,
or do they just all have young kids.
all the ones I know,
my brother in law has three young kids seven and on down
and they, they go on family vacations
and, they go, like to go skiing,
we , the, the middle girl doesn't get a whole lot of attention,
but, this last ski trip they took, she had in , contracted chicken pox first
and then she spread it to her, her li , younger sister and her brother
and they got it just at the beginning of the vacation, where she got better.
So, sh , not only is she the better skier, but she got all the attention, because she got to go out.
I think she planned it.
She's only five,
but I think she planned it .
And she got all the attention from her dad.
Oh, see there,
she needed that,
Wo ,
oh yeah.
didn't she.
You know, it must be hard when you have a lot of children,
I, you know, to ha , I was an only child,
my mother was an only child
so, I, you know, I wasn't raised with brothers or sisters
and I always got all the attention,
so I wouldn't know.
I think I would be extremely jealous, or would have been, had there been another child in the family.
it's, it's, we can see it work with her,
it must be tough.
she's frustrated.
We , she, she's the middle one?
So she's never been the only one,
so she really doesn't even know what it is to be the only one.
that's tough, you know ...
So, what do you,
what's your opinion on the, our policy down there?
I don't think we have one.
I didn't know we had one either .
I was going to say it's kind of hard to have, have an opinion.
We seem to,
whoever screams the loudest
or whoever we happen to give the most money to at that particular time we seem to support, without,
I don't,
regard whether it's a democracy or a anarchy, or anything else.
Yeah .
The only thing that I pretty much know about is the Central American policy where, you know, they're just trying to, you know,
military action in Panama is the only thing that comes to my mind right now,
and then,
And then, of course, there was, there was the, in Columbia, with the drug lords.
But we just talked a lot.
We didn't actually do anything.
Well, that's, that's what I was about to say.
We didn't do anything.
I'm actually surprised at anything in Central America, along with Panama.
I'm just kind of surprised we did that.
that is, that is pretty, risky.
after our friend Jimmy Carter gave it away anyway.
But I guess they had to finally do something.
Actually Bush has been better at that than I thought.
He has a little more d , a little more of a stand on policy than I thought he would.
I always considered him kind of a wimp.
He takes more risks.
Reagan is kind of m , mushmouth.
He was.
But, but I guess most of the policy that we're using now is, a combination of Reagan and Carter, (( )) much as, you know, policy makers.
It seems that the, the policies of pretty much anywhere, not just in Central America, that U S has now is, is, you know, more action than just words, than just rhetoric.
But, you know, ((if)) we, we back up what we s , what we say with actions.
We have so far,
but w , we, r ,
I don't know,
really haven't,
how long it's going to last.
Of course, we really haven't taken on the drug lords, yet.
I'd be interested to see if we do that.
Well, I don't think it's possible because, even though, you know, we're against them, I don't think we can go into another country and do something about the other country's problem.
Well, we did in Panama.
We did in,
Saudi Arabia.
but see the thing when Panama was, the, that, Noriega was, was, was, was wanted fo , either the F B I, by the F B I,
and therefore, they had a reason .
But, to go in and take out the whole drug kingdom would be something totally different because,
It could be an interesting, interesting problem.
I don't know if they could do it or not.
Did you read Tom Clancy's A CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER?
I didn't.
I think you need to pick that up and read it.
It's quite, it's, it's quite interesting.
It addresses the problem.
Oh, the drug problem?
Actually, he, he wrote that prior to the, Med , Medellin Cartel being exposed.
It was on the stands prior to that time.
It, it's quite timely.
And either he knows somebody
or he has a real good, a real good imagination
because its, it hits pretty close to home.
But I don't think we're going to have much of a choice in e , either Central or South America.
I don't think, I don't think, the, the, problem about drugs is going to be safe any time soon.
I mean, you know, it, I think it pretty much got sidetracked with, with the Panama and, and with the C , Cent , (( )) Middle East problems.
Things that, that are important take precedent, precedence over the drugs, I think.
I think, I think the big thing is trying to stop here on the home front .
And bef ,
you know, it, it'll take a little bit of time before they'll realize that this is failing,
so they're going to have to go to the source.
I think we realize it's failed.
We just don't, we just don't,
Don't want to admit it yet.
wants to make the, nobody wants to make the unpopular decision of going in and invading,
We still, there's still t , there's still too many Kennedys and ((Misinvolves)) and ((Udalls)) all up there.
Yep .
That's true.
There's too many liberals in control.
They can't agree on anything.
And they have blinders on as far as the policy goes.
As long as somebody's getting killed, as long as nobody knows about it it's okay.
But, but the minute it hit, hits the paper then, of course, the Kennedys and the ((Misinvolves)) and the ((Udalls)) and the, and, the ((Dawes)) from Georgia, all stand up and scream and yell about what a horrible thing it is.
Of course, these are the same people that also drown ((blonde)), the Chappaquiddic, and stuff like that, you know.
But I guess it automa ,
I guess it's automatic respective.
Depends on how much power you have,
You know,
and who you know.
the people have a right to know except about what it, about what concerns them.
And these are the people that make the foreign policy
and it, it's probably basically,
I would not be surprised if the Kennedy Foundation or some of those don't have a lot of, financial holdings in, in Central and South America.
Considering the Kennedys made all their money off bootleg whiskey anyway.
Every time you drink Scotch, you're paying Kennedys.
I don't drink Scotch.
Don't ever drink Scotch,
it's terrible.
I quit drinking Scotch when I found out about that,
but, anyway.
But, as far as, as far as, you know, Central and South America, we, our policy pretty much, it depends on who we're, what government we're buying down there at the particular time.
think we're trying to stay, stay friendly with the, the Brazilian and, and Argentinean governments because they're producing so much, agricultural exports.
don't want to piss them off and have them over produce
and then, because then our economy would be pretty bad.
Although we do need to do something about, you know,
of course, in Nicaragua and around there with the Sandinistas and the Contras, that's been going on for years.
But then, hell, it's probably still be going on long after we're dead.
It'll still be the same thing.
Those people down there don't really,
I mean,
I think it's going to have to get worse before it gets better,
you know,
Well, I think basically,
the same old cliche.
they can't figure out what they want down there.
If you give everybody what they wanted there (( )) is a complete democracy, those people wouldn't know how to react because they have no education.
And they'll just pick crooked people again.
And then people, the, the wrong people will just fight their way up to the top again,
and it'll all,
It's all tradition.
be for nothing.
It's all traditional.
They have to,
you have the ruling class
and you have everybody else.
Well, I guess that's about five minutes.
Appreciate talking,
((It was very pleasant)).
to you.
All righty.
Hey, what was that book,
talking to you.
what was that book that you were saying to read,
It's called A CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER.
A CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER.
He wri , he's the one who wrote, RED OCTOBER, A HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER.
All right.
And I think i , if you read that, I think you'll get a real kick out of it.
All right.
Thanks a lot.
All righty.
Bye bye.
Hi .
one thing you know that I always think about when I think of public education
cause I went through the public, school system of Boston,
and, I always felt that I graduated high school
and I still didn't even I, I couldn't put together a map of the United State.
You know what I mean.
An yet I felt that I got a good education
and I, I did well in school
but you tell me to name, you know, five continents
an I,
couldn't do it.
I just felt like there were some real basics that are missing from education,
and the people are, are leaving school (( )) not even knowing some common sense things.
well, talking about public education, I'm, we're doing a proposal,
it's, we're doing it at N C State,
we're trying to improve the computer science curriculum,
So that's kind of in a higher level .
So it's interesting that you chose that topic .
did you do through a public school system or private?
well, I went through private an until ninth grade.
did you notice a big difference?
Oh, yeah,
a big difference.
Like in what sense?
Well, in, public schools I guess there wer , there are a lot of, of, you know,
people can take lower level courses an get away with learning nothing.
But, private school you couldn't do that,
you had to learn.
I work in a temporary agency
an they're people that come in, you know, every day to fill out an application,
and they'll have to bring somebody with them,
and they will show that they completed, four year of high school,
yet when it comes to even answering the questions on a simple application,
they can't read enough to be able to fill out the answers by themselves,
That's bad.
it's just incredible.
our State cut a whole bunch of a, I think it's ten million dollars out of the school budget.
So they're making all kind of cuts
in college people cannot, I mean, the teachers can't make tests any more,
and th , the library canceling all of it's subscriptions.
It's pretty sorry.
I know,
I forget
I think it's, some place in New York because they're having budget problems,
they're closing the libraries.
I mean they're not getting rid of any of the sports,
or anything like that,
they're not cutting in any other corner
they're closing the libraries.
That to me shows a little, switch in priorities.
You know.
So do you go to college right now?
Are yo ,
it's my last year .
You're a, so you're a senior now.
I'm working on my projects trying to graduate .
Oh, good for you.
That's great,
is, is N C University is that, State,
N C State.
What did you say?
N C State.
N C State,
that's a State University then.
I see.
And you're from there also?
Well, yeah,
I was, I was born in ((Wylie))
and then I lived in (( )),
most of my life.
I see.
And now I'm back here going to school.
Well, pretty soon it's going to get to the point where no one is going to be able to afford to send their kids to college or to do go to college.
It's just a outrageously expensive.
Luckily state is one of the cheap ones.
Oh is it.
Well, still though
I mean, you know, thousands of dollars,
Yeah, state's not that bad .
Oh, well, that's good.
That's good.
I went to a private university
and, I don't know
I look back now
and I, I think that I probably would have done it differently if I, you know, could do it over again.
But, I have a lot of friends that went to state schools or didn't even go to school, some, some of them,
and I still feel like they came out knowing just as much as I did.
I really do
and that's probably a pretty sad thing to say
I don't know,
Where did you go?
Where did you go?
I went to ((Brandice)) University.
It's in Massachusetts.
And, I really felt like I've been working now for about four years,
and I, I feel like what I've learned working is a hundred times more valuable then what learned in school.
And I know that I'm drawing a lot of what I learned in school, you know,
I, I probably just subconsciously rely a lot on, on art.
But, I don't know
my sister's a principal at a school,
and one thing she's trying to instill in kids, besides just reading and writing are just some, the golden rules,
she calls them just some basics about, you know, you don't take what's not yours,
and if you want to, you know, you don't touch anybody else unless you have their permission.
Like no hitting, you know,
no pulling hair or anything like that,
and, the school that she's in is a, it's basically for minorities,
there's a large minority population.
And, she's really noticed that even some of the teachers that work there
I think they don't value that type of student as much as you get,
in some.
That they, that they like pick on th , the advanced students and pay more attention to them,
it's true.
ignore the others.
And I don't know if it makes them feel better
I mean the do teachers get,
I mean personally I would get more satisfaction out of taking someone that wasn't as successful.
And seeing what they could do verses somebody that did excel in, in areas and just watching them get better, you know.
That's not much of a challenge.
That's true.
But ar , do you have any ideal what you're going into when you graduate.
graduate school .
Oh yeah.
Do you know where you're going?
I think I'm going to Chappel Hill.
Where's that?
That's in Chappel Hill .
((That's the name)),
Oh is that North Carolina?
Oh, okay.
Never heard of the, Tarheels?
I don't know that area.
The A C C Tarheels, U N C?
I ((just don't)) know it.
Oh, .
I don't get down there very often.
They won the final four,
Oh, really,
in boy's basket ball.
well the way I pick the final four was, by the state that had the warmest climate.
So that's how I chose all mine,
so you can tell that I really didn't have that much to do with any of it.
so obviously you're into education.
If you can be going,
my husband went to, is in graduate school actually right now.
I don't know
I give you a lot of credit.
I couldn't do it,
I know.
I couldn't wait to graduate and have,
it be all over.
I can't wait to graduate either,
I know.
I've got all of this stuff due
oh wow.
I kind of know what you mean.
Well, it was really nice talking to you.
All right.
Good luck.
All right,
thank you.
All righty,
take care.
All right,
Bye bye.
Well, as much as I'd, I'd like to say that I'll be looking for a flashy convertible or, or a four by four or something,
I guess the next car I'll be looking for is a kind of a plain old four door .
What kind of a car do you have now?
Oh, we've got a, an older Delta Eighty Eight,
and then, our, our newer car is a, a Corsica.
And we'll probably be looking for something about that, that same style.
That same kind of four door, hard top style.
You got kids?
but we're planning for it.
So, in fact, our Oldsmobile is a, is a like an old Delta Eighty Eight
but it's in pretty good sh , in really good shape.
And we've been really pleased with Oldsmobiles.
So that's probably where the first place we'd look.
Well, we've always had, Fords.
mostly because my wife's stepfather works at a Ford dealership .
That'll do it.
That'll do it.
but, yeah, we're, we're in the same shape.
I think our next car will be a, you know, some big old four door, something that can haul the kids to baseball practice
and piano lessons,
and we've got a minivan,
and that's great.
And I d , drive,
well I used to drive an Escort,
but it died on me.
So I, I mean I, I, I used to run it, I, where we used to live, I used to commute a hundred and forty miles a day.
Oh, geez.
And, and this Escort took it all.
And it, it, it got up to, I was at ninety four thousand miles on it,
and the engine just went.
So I, I, I bought a used, Dodge Aries,
which has been okay.
I, I mean I've haven't had it that long.
But it, it al , it's an eighty five Aries,
but it only had thirty four thousand miles on it when I bought it.
Oh, geez.
And I just, you know, I just drive it to work.
So it's just a ten minute commute every day.
So, it doesn't get much of,
I mean, it's not like I'm putting it through its paces.
But I think,
and it's a four door which is nice,
but it's still a little cramped.
I've got three kids,
so I, I,
Sounds like you, you need at least like a Taurus size,
that's what,
or something like that.
I was thinking of,
was a Taurus.
I, I know a lot of guys at work,
they, the ones that have, families,
and they still want kind of a sports car.
They've been, a lot of them have been getting these Taurus S H O's.
That I guess it's the sports version
Oh, really?
of the Taurus?
Yeah .
In fact, it comes with a standard stick
and a lot of those.
And it comes with a bigger engine and the things like that.
and usually they're in like black,
and gun metal grey and those kind of colors.
You're not going to see too many, you know, green ones or blue ones or anything like that.
They, they put them in sporty colors I guess.
Well, my wife wants a Miyata.
Oh, well sure .
That's what, you know,
until, until you look at the price tag
and then
you go, What?
What would I, besides tooling around and looking really cool
and having a lot of fun, what would I really do with this car?
I know,
I know.
It's like I, I guess I could fit in it ,
maybe .
I went, I went through that when I first got out of, college.
I had an old car that I bought just to get to, to my j , my first job.
And when I got there, the first thing I did was trade it in on a Spitfire.
And I, I knew that was going to be the only time I could afford a two seater, sports car.
But that, that just does not make it as an only car.
It's, it's like I, I would,
I bought a set of stereo speakers
and it was one of those cash and carry deals.
I had to take them one at a time,
with the top down.
And it was winter, so I was in like this coat
Oh, no!
with the top down,
and the speaker in the passenger seat.
Yeah .
And I drove that one home,
and then I went back and got the other one and put that in the,
passenger seat and drove that one home.
And, funny, funniest sight.
And da , you kind of outgrow that real quick
when it's your only car.
Well, I,
you know, it's funny.
Most people that I've talked to did stuff like that when they were in college,
or, you know, or when they were single anyway.
They'd, they'd buy themselves a sporty car because it was their last.
I never did that.
you know, my first car was a Toyota Corolla.
Oh, really?
And, because I got a good deal on it
and, that was a great little car.
Actually I met,
that's how I met girls was, I'd find out if a girl could drive a manual transmission, which I, I had never,
I, I'd learned on an automatic transmission.
And so, so I'd go out on dates where they would teach me how to drive this car.
Boy, that's a good deal.
And, in fact I married one of those people .
Ah, okay.
Well, I'll have to remember that if I ever get in
And it worked.
that situation again .
it worked all right, real good.
Because I, I know we've,
that's, that's something that, that we definitely have to go with is an automatic transmission.
My, my wife just does , can't, can't,
she really doesn't want to learn I guess,
the, the standard shift.
I fact, I, I remember once we, we, went, went on a, test drive.
We got one of these things from Lee Iacocca that said, you know, I'll give you a fifty dollar savings bond if you'll
test drive a car.
And we went, we went, we went to a dealership
and, it, it was prev , she, she did pretty well.
But it was one of those things where we just went to a big parking lot
Yeah .
and the, dealer kind of gave her standard shift parking,
because that was all it was.
It was, it was the funniest thing,
it was like,
a big Le Baron,
it was a Le Baron with everything on it,
but it had a standard shift.
It was the
That's weird!
craziest thing I ever saw.
And, and, and that's probably why they were trying to sell them, I guess.
And, we just kind of went back and forth and back and forth.
She did pretty well after a while.
But, it's just kind of hard to learn, I guess.
Well, my wife,
I mean, she'd always driven standard transmission.
And, and,
in fact all our earlier cars were a standard transmission.
In fact, the minivan's a, has a stick shift.
And in,
this Dodge Aries is the first car we've ever gotten that had anything.
You know, it's got automatic transmission, cruise control,
Oh, geez.
you know, electric locks.
You know, it's like, it's like a luxury car except that it's the Dodge Aries ,
you know.
Oh, well.
Well, I guess that's, I guess that's about all I've got to say,
about cars .
Well, you,
the, the thing about this, th ,
I will say this about the minivan.
We thought that was a luxury car when we bought it.
I would think so,
It, it,
because it's so big.
And, and it was quiet,
it had a stereo system.
Oh, yeah.
We never had it, you know,
we always had the A M radio.
And, of course this has, this (( )) that had s , speakers that you can control from the back seat.
And you can change the channels on the, on the radio from the back seat too .
And put s , speaker phones in it.
Now, now, now that used to be a luxury,
but I bet on the next time you buy a car, that's going to be mandatory.
You've got to have that now.
That's right.
That's right.
You're used to it
and you got to have it.
And you've got to pay for it too.
That's true too.
And I bet, and I bet it costs twice as much as, as when
I bought mine .
It probably does,
it probably does.
Oh, well.
Well, Bill it's been nice talking to you.
Nice talking to you.
you have a good evening.
Thanks a lot.
Bye bye.
Bye bye
talking .
What kind, h ,
What kind of cars do you, do you usually drive?
Right now we, I've got a, four year old Subaru and a two year old Honda.
Oh, my goodness.
Well, we're, we're, we're sort of, sort of a General Motors family,
I guess that's the way we were raised.
And, we were overseas with T I for a number of years
and when we came back we suddenly find out we've got five licensed drivers in the family.
Oh, goodness.
and four cars
and we bought some year old cars from National Car Rental.
At least two of them.
We bought an Olds Calais and a Buick Skylark.
for, you know,
they each had twenty one thousand miles or something like that.
Turns out that's a pretty good place to buy cars because they maintain them
and they can show you the records they've gotten all their maintenance on schedule and everything like that.
then we've got an eighty six Chevy Spectrum that we bought new.
My daughter was a freshman in college when we bought it for her.
And we've got a eighty four Toyota that we bought used.
So we've got four cars for our five licensed drivers.
It's like musical chairs .
I bet.
You're one short.
I bet.
but you know, it's interesting the two,
even though my dad was a Chevrolet man forever and ever and ever
and we were in the retail milk business
and he had all Chevrolet milk trucks
and, and we bought automobiles and all that,
it was almost like
and a Chevrolet dealer was our friend
and it was almost like the minute we got old and bought anything like a, but a Chevrolet it would be like going and spitting on his grave .
as we got older and got away,
and then we thought, well, you know, you still could buy General Motors products
and it was probably not that bad.
But, we lived in Malaysia for T I in nineteen, eighty one, two, three, and four.
And, and, of course you don't buy General Motors products over there .
But we bought a Volvo
and I have never had a car that I've loved more.
I just can't afford them here.
but I, I just loved that car.
And, we bought a,
we lived in the Philippines for T I in eighty five, eighty six, and eighty seven
and we bought a, Ford Telstar,
which is somewhat similar to the Taurus.
It's sold in, in the Far Eastern coun , Far East countries more than here.
But we really liked that.
And have you had experience with cars other than the ones you have?
Well, yeah
we had, we had,
these are the first cars that my husband and I have ever purchased ourselves.
The others were hand me downs through the families.
And those were always G M cars.
Buicks and Chevrolets.
And, we were real happy with them,
but all the ones that we ever had were the, you know, eight cylinder,
Oh, yeah.
really rugged,
The b , the big,
G M cars.
And all we had heard was, was a lot of negative press about the smaller cars,
and we both drive, well, forty five miles round trip every day.
And so we wanted a smaller car,
when we got ready to buy, we needed a smaller car to get better gas mileage
and quite frankly, we were afraid of the, of the G M small cars.
You know, as far as durability.
So we kind of,
when we had our larger cars, we didn't mind, keeping them up,
you know, doing the maintenance and everything on them as long as we didn't have to do it very often.
But, once they got over a hundred thousand miles on them, all of them, you know,
it just kind of seemed to be the magic number for them .
it seems that something goes every month.
And I'm afraid we're going to be in that in another year with all of ours,
you know,
we got three eighty sixes and an eighty four .
And we'll probably be there with all of them.
You know, it's the same thing, you know,
I don't know whether, you classify the Skylark and the Calais as,
well I guess they're intermediate.
but, we went on a family trip to Massachusetts
and there were five of us
and five, five of us never go anywhere together here.
Every , everybody's heading off in their own direction.
And I rented a Buick Le Sabre,
and it's the first big car I had since I had my nine passenger Impala station wagon from seventy six to eighty.
And it made all the,
I, I had forgotten what driving a big car was like.
It's like a yacht.
It was just nice.
It floated.
we, we sold or we, we traded in our Le Sabre for our Subaru.
Oh, yeah.
it was a great car.
It just,
we ran the wheels right off of it.
And, you know I've read,
I'm in the quality business at T I,
I'm a quality manager
and we're, we're we deal,
we sell,
I'm in the semiconductor group
and we sell to, Ford, Chrysler and G M, G M Delco.
And there is a, amazing,
I am just, really impressed with the, with the quality consciousness that the, tho , these companies have put into their procurement
and it's, I, it's come out as a result of the competition from the Japanese.
And, I
and, you know, we used to think Ford products were tinny.
I mean I was growing up,
I was taught when I was growing up, you know, that, that , that real people bought General Motors products,
and peons bought,
That's right.
Ford products.
But just with the quality requirements that Ford is putting on us and the way they come into our plants
and they're really, stressing this partnerships in quality,
and you know, G M and Chrysler are doing that,
but I really think Ford's got a leadersi , ship position in this right now.
And I think it's showing up in their automobiles.
Their automobiles are getting a very good quality reputation right now.
And, we went to, Austin a while back to a basketball tournament
and we were going to be meeting some of my wife's relatives down there,
so we decided rather than drive one of our cars down, we'd rent one,
and we went up to the local Budget
and we were going to get a Olds eighty eight or something.
He said I'll tell you what, for a dollar a day more I'll give you a Lincoln Town Car.
And we drove that down
and I hated to turn that back in.
I bet .
We had that for three days.
And I absolutely loved,
except I couldn't want to have to park it in tight places all the time.
I wouldn't want to have to pay for the gas, either.
but I absolutely loved that automobile.
And, you know, it wasn't that I'd,
driving around down there we might have got sixteen to eighteen miles per gallon,
but on the trip down and back I filled up both coming and going
so I knew what I actually got on the trip
and it was about twenty four miles a gallon.
and, you know, we just got it out on the highway and put it in cruise control at about sixty and let it, let it float.
And, it was pretty nice.
Are, are,
(( )).
are you planning on getting any additional or other cars?
No time soon.
we're, our, our, we won't have any more licensed drivers for about thirteen years.
Oh, yours is small.
So, we, so we don't plan on purchasing any more any time soon.
Both of our cars are getting,
oh, around sixty thousand miles on them.
Oh, yeah.
We drive a lot.
You got another, another thirty or forty thousand if you maintain them.
we've got,
probably we'll get something in the next couple years.
My son will graduate from high school this year,
and, and he's going to go to Richland College one year behind us,
it's right,
in fact, our house is adjacent to the Richland property.
He wants to go to Texas Tech
and he's probably going to have to go to Richland a year to get some grades in order,
but, the next year when he goes out to Tech, he wants a pickup,
and I want,
A pickup .
a pickup.
I may get one and not let him have it .
But, we have been looking at these red Chevro ,
they, they're very popular around here.
These, red Chevy pickups,
and, we'll probably do something like that,
I don't know,
the, the Credit Union has got a deal now where you decide what you want
and you call this number
and, they go negotiate the price for you.
And, and, or, or send you to a guy with whom they've already got a deal
and, my boss just bought a Chevy pickup
and he got three thousand dollars off the sticker price doing it this way.
And, you know, you, you figure out the options, go around look at the dealers and get the best price you can and then go call this guy and, and tell him what you want
and he'll put you in touch with a certain guy, a certain person at that dealer's place.
So I'm going to try that the next time I buy one.
I think that would be a good idea.
And, and, so, you know, I can go around and comparison shop and see if I can get a better negotiation on my own.
But, once, one thing that's a pain in the neck buying automobiles is negotiating.
I've, we've, we've, we've kind of been the types that will say, this is what we intend to spend,
this is the car we want,
will you sell me this car for that price.
And for that price.
And, and we've had
we, with our,
when we bought our Subaru, the guy was like, you can't do this to me,
and we're were just, like, okay fine, we, we won't then.
We'll go somewhere else.
You know.
I mean he's like, no, no, no.
And, and I, I think that's probably the way you've got to do it.
When, when I was young, I went in and bought a, or made a deal on a sixty,
this is nineteen sixty,
I'd first come to Texas, and made a deal on a sixty red Impala convertible
that I just loved,
and this guy gave me this deal, you know,
I told him how much I wanted to pay,
and for every fifty dollars he'd have to go in and check with the boss
and then I'd have to sign something saying that if he could get this rate, we would go ahead and buy.
if he could get this rate I promised to buy
and I left there on a Saturday afternoon just totally exhausted.
I, I was only twenty five years old or something
I, I left there
and I, I, I'd never done this before because I'd always bought my previous cars from the guy my dad bought his milk trucks from,
and, so I, I got back
and a salesman that lived in the apartment had, asked me, if,
he'd heard I was going to get a car, and asked me what I paid for it.
He said, well, hey, before you go buying anything,
he says call this friend of mine at Will's Point.
There was a guy that owned a Chevrolet dealership up there.
And I called the guy and made an appointment to come up Monday morning
and just driving fifty miles out of town, it was a difference,
and, I mean it was a difference of four hundred dollars,
but this was four hundred dollars on only twenty five hundred,
is all we paid for cars in those days.
And, so I called back the guy in Dallas
and I told him that,
I'd left him a check for tax, title and license and everything,
and I said I want to cancel my order and, and don't try to cash the check because I'm going to, I've stopped payment on it already
and he says oh, somebody's taking,
he said what did you get a deal for, Bill.
And I told him,
he says, somebody's taking you for a ride.
And I said, no somebody took me for a ride last Saturday .
That's right.
And, and I, I find that,
and for the longest time then I drove up to Will's Point
and, and the, and the fellow died since then,
and, and some of his relatives have taken over the business
and that,
and, since then I had ...
well yes,
we do have pollution in Houston
and it,
How bad is it?
Do you have smog like they do in California?
Well it, it
I think it depends on, you know, what the, ho , the cloud cover
and like right now, it's, it's kind of overcast, you know,
just, it's hot,
and the sun is trying, tries to shine through
but it's, it's holding in this, this pollution
and I,
It depends on whether you have some sort of temperature inversion, I take it.
I think so,
and we have, Pasadena, Texas which is sort of between here an, you know, heading toward Galveston,
I mean it's still part of, it's part of the Houston metroplex.
What do you think is your primary cause of it.
Well, I think it's industry
and I think it's cars.
You do?
You really think cars contribute a lot now that they've taken lead out of gas?
I don't, I,
well maybe not,
but, it, it sure, it sure, se ,
you know, it,
I, I know that when I'm, when I'm behind a car
and, sometimes, I can really smell especially diesel and things like that,
you know, comes right into my air conditioner
and, you know, my head and my fa ,
I'm so stopped up right now,
my goodness.
I don't know if it's, if it's partly from what's blooming, you know, right now, pollen and stuff like that,
that's part of it,
I think a lot of it's industrial.
I also think, that, there is a certain amount that comes from automobiles
but it's mostly from older automobiles.
I don't think the newer automobiles are as polluting, frankly.
I think that, I think that,
I, I, I heard a story a while back
something to the effect that if they could just pay to get twenty percent, or, take all the cars off the road that have been, manufactured say before nineteen seventy five,
that they could cut the automobile pollution by over fifty percent just by getting rid of those cars that are still left remaining.
You mean, fifty percent pollution total
from that comes from,
From, from cars
that is, not, not total but just from cars,
Oh, huh.
So, that I think would be tremendous help.
But I happen to drive an old model car because it's very economical
and it just keeps getting, gives me good service
and I don't have an incentive to get rid of it as long as it keeps running good and not costing me any money.
On the other hand I know it's a much more polluter than any of the newer model cars I have.
But I don't have any incentive to get out of it until it dies.
And, that may be part of the problem.
Als ,
Do you all have pollution in your co , part of the country, from industry?
oh, yeah,
it's, it's, pretty heavy up here I think
but I think it's mostly industrial, is what I really, believe is the, the main problem.
And, and,
and, people, I don't think are paying as close attention to it in this area as they frankly should.
I, I we, we seem to have a high, cancer rate up here in Maryland.
like what ki ,
any particular kind or just all kinds?
Well, for instance breast cancer seems to be pretty rampant
and, I think,
of course prostrate cancer's sort of bad for everybody,
but, th , this state was like the second,
my wife's a registered nurse,
and I think this state was like second this year from the top, in terms of, cancer rate for just all kinds.
And I can't help but believe that's not partially caused from pollution.
I just don't know exactly what it necessarily is,
but I just can't believe it is.
Now we have a lot of pollution being caused by cloruph , fluorocarbons which is the, like freon twelve and freon twenty two.
They use freon twenty two in air conditioning systems in houses and the like and heat pumps,
and they use freon twelve in car air conditioners
and that's also what's causing our atmosphere to lose it's ozone layer.
And I can't help believe if it's sufficient enough to make the atmosphere lose it's ozone layer, that it's not acting as a pollutant in our lungs also,
and having all kinds of effects,
Well what can we do about the, the, the, the air conditioning problem?
Well they're working now,
I know DuPont and Dow and several other chemical companies are working, feverishly to try to come up with a substitute for fluorocarbons,
and who ever does is going to make, a mint.
Because if they ever come up with a reasonable working agent in place of fluorocarbons, then,
Is that also what's in, hairsp , aerosol?
Well they used to be,
but they made them take it out of that.
Even, so, so the aerosol is still aerosol,
but it doesn't have anything that's damaging.
they, they, they passed a law and made them take the fluorocarbons out of the aerosol containers,
well that's good.
and that was a move in the right direction.
We are doing some things to try to correct the problem.
But there are more things we could do
and getting rid of old cars, like I said is one way to help correct the problem.
just trying to I think be careful, with the way you handle garbage,
I notice in this state,
I don't know if you're doing it in Texas yet or not,
but in this state we have special containers now we have to put all our cans and bottles and plastic pieces, you know, containers in,
Here, they've just started, started doing that,
it's, it's, you know,
you're not, you don't have to,
but m , you know,
I know I am.
I save,
well we are doing it pretty religiously in our group too.
But they,
in one of the counties here, they're actually doing a trial program of having a trash police.
They have a lady that goes around like a meter maid
and she spot checks people's trash.
No kidding,
And if they find a bottle or a can or anything like that in your trash,
Is that right.
they'll fine you fifty bucks I think the first time and two fifty the second time.
Well, we need to do something,
we need to get serious about it.
you've got to get people to see i ,
and surprisingly enough just handling of trash, can cut pollution, from, from just throwing it in a dump, or, or, or, where ever else they used to do with it, maybe used to burn it.
They've stopped that up here too.
But that, that will cut pollution too.
Because you get a lot of out gassing from these things, I think, decaying and tr , and trying to,
for instance cans and bottles, they never go away at all.
But on, on the other hand, I don't guess they're polluting.
But plastic containers and the like, they may be,
I'm not sure of that.
How much does, planting more trees and things like that help?
Oh I think that's very important to do.
(( )) too.
I, I really think that, trying to get along with your environment and help it out is a very, very important thing.
And, that can help to cut pollution, I guess some.
I, I don't know how much trees actually act as filtering agents in terms of pulling various pollutants or chemicals out of the air.
I would hope that they would help some, though.
That's for sure.
I think, it seems like there was something going on, around here, that, you know,
we have all these chemical plants and oil refineries and those kind of things and that they burn off a lot of stuff,
and some of the stuff that they weren't supposed to do that somebody found out, you know, like in the middle of the night, they would go ahead and do it anyway.
I think they got caught.
Oh good.
But I wonder how much of that kind of stuff, you know, goes on.
Well that, that I think may go on a lot
and the primary reason I think it may go on a lot is just as you said, somebody happened to stay up late at night or something.
I don't think we have a adequate policing, particularly on industry.
we have good policing, at least in this state and, and several of the surrounding states and probably yours too, of car pollutants
because we have to go down, once a year here in Maryland and get out car's exhaust systems checked for emission content.
we have to, we have to have a state inspection every year.
Do you all have that?
we don't have a state inspection,
which I,
I don ,
I would assu ,
but any time you sell a car or buy a car it has to be inspected in this state.
So I'm assu , I'm assuming that, you know, they check, they check everything for safety
I don't know,
that's something that you'd have to just check with your authorities.
But in this state we have to, pay eight dollars and a half and go to a, an emission station once a year and get every one of our cars checked that are, have been made starting in nineteen seventy three.
But that's all they check for,
they don't check how good,
if your tires are good enough or your brakes are good enough.
we don't have inspections like that.
Now, I'm in Maryland,
in Virginia they check that every two years, I think.
We do that ev , every year.
And I think that's a good idea too,
not, no , not that it necessarily has anything to do with cutting pollution necessarily,
but I think it's a good idea.
The emission check, though, is required in Maryland
and it's also required in Virginia, a sister state to, to this one.
And that's, that goes a long ways towards cutting pollutants.
Well I'll have to check,
I'm not sure if, if our state inspection ever ,
once a year has to do, you know,
if they check the,
well if they don't I would imagine in time they'll get a law with. i , get around to it,
and if they don't then that's something I would certainly, suggest you be willing to be for in terms of,
Oh, I would .
I'm for anything that cleans up the air or the water or, or, or anything.
Oh yeah,
I, I agree.
Now that's another area we haven't even discussed
and that is water pollution and various of the other types of, of, like food pollution.
I mean you, you hardly ever hear, hear anybody say anything about food pollution.
But I think there we have a pretty good handle on inspection of foods in this countries,
so, hopefully we're not ingesting too much in the way of, pollutants in our food.
But water pollution,
I've worried, especially the last few years about just how good the water supply we have in this country is for drinking and the like.
I know a lot more people are going to bottled water.
and that's not necessarily the answer either
because they've found out that that's just comes out of somebody's tap.
yeah .
but a lot of these,
some of this
well, you know, a lot of people have well water,
in fact in this area too
and, an, you know,
if you don't get it tested you don't necessarily know what you're, what you're drinking
and I, I know a lot of people, you know, have that
and, you know, you have to wonder if that, you know could have an adverse affect on them too,
if they don't, i , they don't get it checked.
I'm absolutely for drinking water out of wells as long as you first of course, have it checked
because it seems,
when I was a kid growing up down south, I used to go out in the country where my grandparents were
and we had a well,
it was one of those draws that,
I forget what you call those things,
and, and that was some of the best tasting water,
I mean, I can still to this day taste that water.
When we were,
when I was growing up I lived in Huntsville, Alabama,
and their water supply came from, spring.
And it was like ice cold, spring water
and I guess parts of the, the city still ha , you know, get that,
but, that was, that was really wonderful.
Oh, I bet it was.
It was really, really good.
the ,
once it's been filtered an if it's a deep enough well, filtered through all the earth and everything I think that,
it depends of course where you are.
A good well, though, I think is very healthy ...
The Latin American situation in,
the last development I know of was the military and financial assistance Columbia
for the, for the drug, control.
And I support that fully.
I'm not sure we have the right solution to it,
but at least we're, we're going to the source of the problem.
the source of supply.
the problem is here,
but the source of supply is there.
That's true.
Very definitely so.
In fact I think a lot of the,
I've been to, Peru several times.
I've never been to other parts of South America,
but, I have been to Peru,
and they need some assistance down there
and I'm sure that, as an undeveloped country they look, look for it,
but there is not exactly a lot of, physical responsibility there. *
Very immature in that
And I, I think that, they need guidance and assistance,
but they need to learn how to stand on their own, own two feet also.
I agree.
I think that for so long power financially, governmentally, every which way was in the hands of such a few
that there's not the middle class that we, we perceive.
Oh, no, the, and the poor are extremely poor.
I know,
Are extremely poor.
That's correct.
I know, some of the areas in, in Texas seem poor,
but until you've seen some of those, native,
Latin Americans come down from the hills, you can't imagine what poor is.
And, the worst scene I've ever had I think was, someone eating out of, out of a garbage can on the streets in Lima, Peru.
And, and just very happy to get that.
Oh, yes.
I have a brother who spent two years in Bolivia.
And this is very much his, you know, reaction that the rich are so rich and the poor are so poor.
Oh, the, there's a joke,
the, the graft and the, payoffs down there are , are an accepted way
and, in a way,
And there's, there's a sad joke.
I guess all jokes are really sad,
but there's a joke about the, Ambassador from Latin America that came to visit a Senator in the U S and was taken to his home for dinner
and the, home was palatial.
They had five or six servants, you know, and, and, a lot of expensive, holdings and all that,
and the Ambassador said, but I know what you make as a U S Senator,
how can you afford all of this?
And he said, come I'll show you
and he walked out in the backyard
and the, Senator said do you see that hospital over there?
And the Ambassador said, yes.
And he patted his pocket
and he said fifteen percent.
He said, you see that school over there?
And the Ambassador said, yes,
and he pot, patted his pocket and said fifteen percent,
Oh, gosh.
so the next year the Senator went to Latin America to visit the Ambassador and was treated to dinner in his home
and it was twice as large and four times as many servants.
He said, well I know how poor your country is,
how can you afford this, in such a poor country,
and he, he said, come I'll show you
and he walked out the backyard
and he said, do you see that hospital over there?
And the Senator looked
and he couldn't see anything,
he said, no.
And the Ambassador potted, patted his pocket and said one hundred percent
Yep .
it's a sad story
Intentions, intentions .
but it, it is a problem.
I know.
I have a sister in law who is from Nicaragua
and her family,
her father was a fairly, high ranking official under Somoza.
And when that went down the tubes they had to get out.
And seventeen children,
filtered through into, into America through Guatamala, through Mexico, through Honduras,
you know, two here, three there, one here, you know, this kind of thing until,
and now, couple of the older ones stayed or went back,
but the rest of them now have their American citizenship and are leading productive lives,
but, you kn ,
Well, the oth , the other instance I think of their inability to, to handle things, the cholera,
and hepatitis epidemics now in, in Latin America.
And it shows the, the unpreparedness for such, such a problem.
And yet they're so,
Oh, the stories she tells, you know, are just unnerving
just unnerving.
And they're, they're so rich in resources there.
They're very rich in oil and gas.
And they're very rich in gold and silver, and very rich in, in, natural resources such as the fish and,
timber, and, and copper and all types of, resources
but they,
And the uranium.
but they don't have,
it's sort of like Russia,
they don't have the ability to develop it.
The technology.
And they, they're very,
and, you know, they're very willing to be taught in many cases now, too,
but, you know, there's just always this kind of resentment underlying
I think that when they receive help from us, they want it,
but, they don't want it, I mean ,
It's kind of a
you're exactly right.
catch twenty two.
It, it's sort of illustrated by the, World Bank and International Monetary Fund not wanting to continue to do business there
because they offer assistance, then don't get repaid.
So it's sort of a thumbing of the nose, approach.
They need it,
and they need to live up to certain regulations and expectations,
but then don't.
Of course it's a very volatile government, situation, too.
and I think that, you know, it,
somewhat a sarcastic view,
but some of those drugs czars, you know,
they, they know that by pumping that poison into our system
that that's the way to bring us to our knees, more on their level.
You know,
You know, that's really, kind of a far fetched idea,
I know,
and I don't think people probably think those things consciously,
but it's like in any sibling rivalry
Well the,
we're hearing the same,
The solution discussed at one time and I think it has real merit on the drug situation is that the g , the U S government could spend less money by buying the crop and destroying it than they are in trying to, to beef up the military and to do all other things.
I think it would be cheaper to buy it and destroy it,
which would still give the, the grower in Columbia and elsewhere in Latin America the, the money that they apparently need and go, go to the illegal crop for.
And it would save the U S money in
In the long run.
in the long run in how much they're trying to do,
And in the short run probably , too.
Course, then could, you know, at, at some point, could you ever convince someone to turn around and grow something that was productive for humankind.
You know.
And, I, I think finding an alternate to that would be very good.
I mean even their, even their legal crops are things that we don't perceive as being healthy now from a medical standpoint of view, coffee
you know .
Argentine beef,
They're certainly legal,
but they're certainly not healthy.
Well, have we come up with a solution yet, Salina?
not that I know of .
But it's been fun hashing about it I suppose.
At any rate,
Well, one of these days, I hope we'll find some, some way to substitute the good crops for illegal ones.
Well, let's just hope that the powers that be, have time to, a little bit once in a while to, to think in some farther reaching avenues than you and I do here tonight
I agree.
Well, it's been nice chatting with you.
it has.
I appreciate it,
and, and tell your wife I hope we, I get her again sometime, too.
This is fun,
Very good .
It's kind of nice to, to see old friends now, you see.
All right,
thank you Salina.
Bye now.
Gun control seems to be a rather, timely topic, with all that's going on legislation wise.
Yes .
interesting scale that they assigned it, the one being a banned and ten being no regulations or totally free .
I'd have to put myself pretty much in the middle, I guess.
don't mind regulating guns
I would certainly call for a ban on certain types.
wisdom as to which types, that's going to be a debate forever, I would assume.
the method controlling it, that's all into how much money you want to put into controls.
one point that was made in the House hearings
the representative stood up and said, we can check a guy's credit card instantly,
we don't want to check his background,
of course those are two different issues as far as privacy goes
there still, technology exists check it if they want.
kind of a,
I guess you could put a dollar figure on it if you really want to make that kind of an effort and regulate it like that.
you've got the group of people that decide that no particular reason to have them at all
you got to balance those against the ones that say there is some sport to it
I guess I would fall more in realm that I like the sport issue of it,
could give it up without too much trouble,
not the world's most pleasurable thing
it costs a bit to do it,
Yes .
finding ranges and things like that.
I have shot a variety of guns for a number of years,
it's just not like golf or whatever.
there are other things that you could go do.
don't see joy of shooting that much of a driving factor.
I think that society could easily swing the scales the other direction just for the sake of safety of the number of kids that tend to get hurt,
I don't even keep the gun in our house,
I don't have that problem,
it's a hard, hard topic, I guess.
A lot of people have a hard issue, a lot of hard feelings about it.
They do,
can get them on either side
just like you say,
I'd have to place myself, probably seven or eight ,
onto no control,
two or three.
I was going the wrong direction.
we had a neighbor child that was killed by another child
because they had a gun in the house
the father kept the bullets in a separate place,
the little boy was five years old and was intelligent enough to,
he knew where places were, loaded the gun
they were playing cowboys and Indians
he shot the other little boy right between the eyes.
I mean it,
it destroyed two families
in just that instant
say that they need it for protection,
having worked at one time in Baltimore,
I don't know if you're in the big city,
are you,
That's a big city .
then that,
if you live anywhere real close that,
the safety is,
some people argue that they need a gun to make sure that they aren't going to get shot because of the incidences of break ins and, you know.
we have never had a gun in the house with my children growing up.
once, knew a fellow that had, had been a policeman
he said that if you pull a gun on a robber, he's going to assume that you know how to use it well,
he's going to, try to shoot first.
if he's got one.
if not,
then usually they,
if he's got a knife or whatever that can throw it at you,
he said that was better not to have,
especially myself, now I'm a widow,
when my handicapped son not at home, I'm by myself,
I still won't have a gun in the house because he said it's really , playing Russian Roulette if you do .
About the only circumstances that they'd be of any value is when you happen to already know that person was coming your way.
Once you're surprised, it's too late.
That's right.
the rare,
That's right.
circum ,
the very few of those burglaries actually occur in such a way that you knew the guy was coming,
had time to do anything about it.
That's right.
I don't have that problem,
as I don't use that argument as saying it's worth keeping one.
N R As, claim that the, the constitutional, the right to bear arms and that whole statement,
it's hard to know the original intent,
don't see it as that, that difficult of a story to believe when the opposition says that, it's the right to, to arm a militia as opposed to just the general public.
earn a right,
not just a privilege as it were if you're going to serve in the militia,
then you have a right to have that arm,
That's right.
there's all sorts of arguments there
I know .
I don't even want to worry about what the original intent was,
they didn't have this problem back then .
that's true.
we change our rights with our social status.
That's, that's right,
that's right.
They're man given rights
they can be taken away by a man,
the people that hide behind that, I don't worry about.
They can go live in another country if they want.
that's how I feel, too.
I know,
here where I work, we have gun club.
of course, those people are very avid.
they say there should be no ban,
that it's not,
I can't see why any, o , on the street citizen should be able to be allowed to have a machine gun.
when you were talking about maybe what kind of guns that would be hard to decide,
there are a few guns that, just are not, sport,
I don't know too many people that use a machine gun to go sport hunting either .
think they should have at least some control over, over those things.
when you were speaking about how they can check up, on credit cards,
understand about the privacy act everything,
why can't they check to see if the person who is applying for this gun has had a record or not.
That, to me, would not be an unreasonable thing.
if they do,
course the argument with the people in the gun club, is that, the people that are going to get guns are the ones that are going to steal them anyway.
it's not going to be that they're buying them.
Course, some of them do.
it, it is a hard question .
Tends to, tends to strap only the legitimate people.
Most regulation does ,
oh, yeah.
it's very difficult to, legislate, crooks or
That's right.
this may be a never ending topic.
I got a couple of calls waiting on me,
I'd better let you go.
thanks for talking.
Okay, bye.
Bye bye now.
our children are both, basically adults.
They, we've, we've got two.
one is twenty one,
and one is twenty five.
And they, they still live at home.
Well, that's, that's a little unusual for, for children of that age, to have both of them that age at home.
But, I guess the activities that, we have with them are, pretty few and far between.
Actually the, they're both going on their own most of the time.
So, most of our activities are, you know, just discussion type things about what's going on in the family and what they're doing and
huh .
that kind of thing.
Well, we have a, three year old and a one year old.
And, so you know it keeps us pretty busy as you know.
Sure it does.
And, most of the time with a three year old we're trying to, to get him,
well, we play usually in the evening when, when I get home, you know, about five o'clock or so until about eight, you know, with the exception of dinner.
Out in the front or backyard playing like, tee ball off the, you know, off the ball and let him hit a lot of baseball.
since we just got here we got the, new two wheel bike with training wheels on it for him,
and he really likes riding that around.
Oh, yeah.
So, you know,
and trying to supervisor him with that and everything and, playing squirt guns and all that,
he really likes that.
And, the one year old just kind of follows along and does everything,
trying to do everything he does.
is the one year old a boy?
it's a girl.
A girl?
Yea ,
ours, the older one is a girl,
And the, and the younger one is a boy,
I guess, what I see is so far as, the trends, for children,
I don't know what kind of a area Virginia Beach is,
but, of course, Richardson is in the Dallas area.
And I think, the big city,
activities for, for children now are,
they're good
but there's so much, potential danger, you know,
that you really have to watch your children so closely now
you can't let them grow up the way, the way I grew up, you know.
I, I'm from a smaller town in east Texas.
And I could, you know, go and do whatever, pretty much whatever I wanted to do,
my whole life.
you know, I never, never had to worry about the bad guys being out there.
And, you know, I find it's, it's quite a bit different now
that, you know, you have to watch your children so closely and, keep up with them.
I, I feel like,
that it's, it's really a sad commentary on, you know, a life in general,
that, you know that children can't, cannot be allowed to grow up, you know, without really close supervision.
Well, I, I agree with that,
and I seem, I seem to feel the same way, you know,
even just when I grew up and everything.
And, and, the way it is now you get a lot of supervision is, is at hand and everything.
the only other thing I have noticed though is that, it seems that there's been a lot of or more empha , emphasis at least in what we've been dealing with
and, and the looking, you know,
just start not even,
not really looking for a school for him but, like a preschool or something that where he would go maybe a couple hours a couple days a week or something.
For, for a three year old it's that,
there's a lot of emphasis on, on, on, on education and what these children should know before they reach kindergarten.
And, and it seems like it's a lot more than the , they need to know and be able to do than when we are the, when I had to go in t , ki , kindergarten.
And it seems like it's more,
you know, I don't know.
They're expecting more or, or just, you know,
kids just because of the computer age or whatever, it just, know more when they get, you know, to be five or six or something.
I guess looking at, back at, at what our children did compared to what, you know, what I had to go through in school.
The, there i , there does seem to be a lot more in the curriculum.
It's a lot more complicated.
A lot more available, of course.
But, this,
(( )) so much more to learn now that it really makes it more difficult, I would think.
I, I would probably have a hard time getting through school myself.
you know, just,
or at least it would be a lot harder than it was when I went to school.
One thing is I got a home computer too
and, I play, with the three year old
I play some computer games and stuff with him.
Educational games like, you know, concentration type games,
the matching, things like that.
And, he's, he really likes it
and, and I think it's important because I think that, you know, it gives him the interaction with the computer
because it sure looks like that's going to be you , you know, the big thing for a long time.
And given,
I think,
given that knowledge and stuff with it
and he seems to enjoy it.
And, of course, the one year old hasn't, hasn't gotten there yet
and the other thing we try to do is, since the ((summer's time's)) here is, sign him up for, and her, for, different activities at like the rec center or something like swimming,
you know,
there's a little soccer thing that he's going to do for a week or so
and, you know,
where they go for an hour or so.
because, when he was a baby that we did the swimming too
and he really liked it
so we're going to do that with our daughter too.
That, watching a little, little boys play soccer is, is more fun.
I can't imagine th , them having as much fun as the parents,
had watching them .
I know.
Well, we were just talking about that too.
And I guess it's not really soccer it's just kind of a, well, kick the ball around for a while,
yeah .
see what happens .
The, the disorganized play (( )) really what it was,
when ours was a,
I guess he was probably five or six, you know, when he first started playing soccer.
And, and that was, that was more fun to watch those boys trying to, trying to kick the ball up and down the field.
and it's,
I guess, that was, you know, as important, as much important to the parents as it was to the children that, you know, to get out and watch the kids play,
I guess one of the things that I think about is a, talking about education, I kind of feel like, that, the, the school systems in this, particularly in this area, the systems are not under enough control.
The, the students have a little too much, too much leeway.
Excuse me.
an , an , and the, and that's kind of contradictory to what I said
but, you know, you,
the, ((hell))
you have to be under control so much when they're out
but when they're in school they, they don't have quite, quite as much control,
over them as,
as what I would liked to have seen.
I kind of feel like there's, there's too much allowed to go on in at, at school.
And, you know, it tends to, to encourage students to not be as, you know, to not concentrate as much on the education.
You know, they're, they're there for a good time.
And, you know, to, to see how little they can get by with.
Well, I know of number of people that are in the, in the, school district an , down in, in, San Antonio.
And, it seems like it's,
a lot of the problem is to, you know,
you always have the lack of funds
but it seems to be getting worse and worse
and so they don't settle the resources to draw on to give as much supervision as, as, as,
kids need.
And, you know,
that's just a problem that who knows how that's going to, that's going to come out or anything.
But, I, I don't, I don't know
I think, you know, some of the thing has to do with,
with the civil rights program.
Not that the civil rights program is bad
but that there's,
it carried over,
into, you know, individual rights
and it, you know, trickled ou ,
Well, Tom, just tonight, I was working on my car out of necessity,
and I had, had a long age old problem of my bright lights not working,
this is the type of, switch where you flip the, the lever, the turn signal on the column
and when I would, put it in the bright light position the lights would go out completely,
which is even worse than them just not getting bright .
And I had presumed that it was the switch,
and, this is, an older car,
it's a seventy two M G,
so I had to mail order the part,
which I had done,
and tonight I went out and, at least hooked in the new part, only to discover that that apparently is not the problem,
it's not in the switch, because it does the same thing with the new switch.
So I'll be faced with having to return that product and, hoping that, you know, that they will accept it,
although it's been removed from the box it's obviously not been really used.
Did you do the diagnosis, or was it just an assumption that that's probably the part that failed?
I had done what diagnosis I could, primarily by looking at a wiring diagram that I did have of the car
and, pretty much decided that that had to be the problem.
I talked to one mechanic about it,
and he suspected the switch also.
but I've not, you know,
I really don't know what the problem might be.
It, it, the other switch could be the main switch itself, that turns the lights on or off, which is on the dashboard
it might be tied into the equation somehow,
Yeah, I know,
when working with the, flashers, there is, usually a, a special fuse that operates the flashers.
Do you have a separate fuse for your high beam
as opposed to your low beam?
I don't know,
I should look at that.
I don't remember seeing one in the, in the diagram
so I'll have to go back and look at that.
I don't even know if my current cars have a separate fuse.
I know sometimes when you think there are things running while they're at the same unit, like the headlamp
you tend to think, well, there's one fuse operating the whole thing,
but sometimes the extra amperage that a high beam drives as opposed to a low beam requires, the use of a, of a maybe a higher fuse.
that's a good idea.
So, that's a possibility.
What I've typically found when that,
companies are pretty good about accepting returns on products like that when they're not needed after all,
and I hope that that's the case this time.
Is this a, a mail order parts house that specializes in, in parts for parts for, old imports?
it's out of Kansas
so, it's not J C Whitney or somebody like that.
it's not.
I also got a piece of chrome for the, the hood that they had indicated was the right part for this car,
but it is not either,
it's obviously doesn't quite fit,
so it must be for a different year,
so I'll have to try to return that as well.
have you found any, reliable import service people in the metroplex?
Well, I had one person that I used for years and years on this car,
because I've owned this car since it was new,
but it's over like in the Brook Hollow industrial district down on Stemmons and
Oh, yeah.
Inwood area
and I hadn't used him for some years,
and the last time I called him back it turned out that he had further specialized
instead of, all import cars, he has narrowed it down to where he only works on, German cars and German cars .
I'll be darned.
I'm not sure that he works on much else at all,
but he doesn't work on British cars any more, and gave me the name of somebody else to take a look at it.
So, I may have to check with that person,
as it turns out that one, that shop is near where I now work.
So, I'll, I should be able to take it in and check that part out.
I've not had to exchange any other parts recently, because they were defective.
Now, I've had, had pretty good luck,
I just, however, did, have to get a, a, one of these jam box portable dual cassette players, repaired.
I purchased it at Sam's,
and I had assumed that it had a ninety day warranty,
and I should have checked more carefully and done a better job of saving the receipt,
because I didn't take it in right away, and let a whole year go by.
some of the buttons didn't work right, where you had to actually physically hold them down to get it to record or to play,
and as it turned out, it had a full year's warranty,
and I could have gotten it repaired for free
Oh, my goodness.
I had to take it in,
while it was in the shop I ended up finding the receipt that I thought had long since been lost,
but it didn't do me any good, because I had, I had missed the window by about a week or two.
Oh, no.
So I didn't even, I didn't really, even bring it up when I went in to pick it up.
But, that's really my only experience in the past year where I've had to take a product back because of a defect.
Well, ours wasn't within the last year.
I guess it's been within the last two years,
Judy has an Oldsmobile that we bought new,
and it's one with the, electronic ignition and the computer controlled mixer, and,
I don't know what else it all controls, but the fuel mixture and cruise control and things of that sort,
and we found that the, we were having two problems.
It was idling fast, when you first started the engine, to the point that we park on a hill, under our car port,
and, it, when you first dropped it into geared it would immediately want to back up into the alley,
and knowing that, you always had to keep your foot on the brake hard,
otherwise it would just wrench control away from you.
Good grief.
And the other problem Judy would have is occasionally she would, be driving along, decelerating, like coming to a stop sign, but not yet stopped at the stop sign
and the engine would just quit.
So, we took it back to the, Oldsmobile place and asked them to check it out,
and at first they thought it was just a matter of timing,
so they adjusted timing
and the problem didn't go away,
so we ended up taking it back again,
and I don't know why they don't look at these things the first time around,
but the second time around they looked at their, recall service and their service reports from region or headquarters whatever,
and, and they had a description of the exact problem we were experiencing that apparently was a programming error
in the, computer control unit,
which fortunately they replaced under warranty, because it was about a three hundred or three hundred and fifty dollar part
My goodness.
and, so once they replaced it, then the, the car seemed to work fine
for a considerable period of time,
and now it seems to be,
we don , we're not experiencing the stalling,
but we're still experiencing a very uneven,
What do you think about it?
well, immigration,
I know they're really strict right now because my hundr , husband is from out of the country
and, we had to go through a whole, very long process to, to, assure the government that he was, marrying me
and not to be a resident here.
That's interest ,
I think that's, I think it's a little crazy.
I worked with Spanish people
for about two years
and just, it was incredible to me to see the things that they had to go through when they were really some of the best workers.
that's true.
I mean, you can't just come over to the country because, you want to.
You know, that's not good enough.
You have to have a, have to have a darn good reason of, political or whatever.
Not a good, not a good easy way to get in.
I think, you know, I think in a lot of ways the law is good because it tries to, to protect, you know, the people who are in the states.
My mother, actually knew a woman in another state that used to marry men
n , she'd never even meet them
and she'd just get money for it.
Oh, you're kidding.
Sounds like a lot of fun.
it's amazing to me how, how many things they would allow to occur before, you know, you can come in.
But, I mean, with the new laws, it's
it's tough now.
it's kind of frustrating, too, for those who are legitimate now.
You know, I think,
Well, and, you know, my grandparents came to this country just wanting a better life, you know
and they got here,
but now it's a, you know, it's so strict that you can't just do that.
And I think it's important that they, you know, they allow a good number of people in every year
because really they're the ones who work the hardest and do the jobs that, that we don't want to do.
I agree.
And I just,
I don't know,
I have, personally I have a problem with it,
I think, that, you know, if someone wants to come in and they can prove that they're going to work and they're going to be a good citizen that
we shouldn't close our door.
If they're not going to be on welfare or, or, or whatever.
They're going to be a productive citizen Zen.
And, you know, I, I believe that if someone goes on welfare that's when, you, you know, send them back to their country.
And, I think a lot of times we're so busy trying to keep them out that we're spending twice as much money as we would just allowing them in
Well, think of how many illegal aliens have, have, have been, sent back to Mexico just to find their way back.
and that's, that's what I think.
You know, I, I have to laugh
because, like I said, I worked with a lot of those
and they'd been deported two or three times
and just basically what they do is they get caught when they wanted to go home for Christmas.
That's right,
that's our money.
Or for any other time.
that's true.
But, I think, you know, I think all in all there's a lot of improvements.
I think the general idea is good
but, but there could be some work done in the area.
I, I think
I, I agree.
Well good .
Anyway, do you have anything else in the, the subject,
that you might want to talk about?
this is spur of the moment,
but, I, I don't really see any, any changes that I think of really blatant right now
other than I think they ought to take, you know, on a case by case basis and not necessarily make it a, political refugee.
I think a lot of times we take, you know, basically who we want to
because if you, if you have connections, it's a lot easier to get in.
Connections and money.
and I think, you know, it should be more of a thing that's based upon someone's intent, you know.
And that it should be equal to all
and then not like the United States,
basically, it's not who you know,
it d , it doesn't become a thing of who you know, but, but how the type of person you are.
I agree.
And it should be based on those kinds of things so the good people, like probably your husband, can get in .
Yeah .
Well, we got him past that,
Well, great.
I know there's a lot of other people out there,
would probably do a good job here.
Well, let's see,
is there anything I believe in .
I think that's it.
Is this like a very short call? .
I'm not sure how long they're supposed to be,
but, I've enjoyed it.
It's good hearing your, your point of view
and I think that's neat.
I think we agree a lot on that
I did, too.
I've learned something from it.
Well, it was nice talking to you.
Well, thanks,
I'm glad you're home.
You have a good evening, all right?
You, too.
bye bye.
Well, seems to me the, one of the reasons that people don't go out to vote is maybe they're bored with the whole election process.
Well, I agree with the boredom of the election process,
but I also, think that people don't realize that their boat, vote will make a difference.
they feel like that, you know, it's going to go however it's going to go
and their one little vote is not going to make that much difference
and it's, just why make the effort.
Well, sometimes, strangely enough, one vote has made the difference.
Well, I agree with that
and I, and I do know that, you know, all those votes are counted
and, and they do make a difference.
also I think that people have a tendency to, to vote in the larger elections and not vote in the, the more local elections.
Well, it's kind of strange
because in the local elections is the ones that have the most influence on their day to day lives.
and, I, I even have a tendency to do that myself.
And I have to really make a concerted effort to, to get involved.
I live, I live in a suburb in Mesquite
and, so I really have to make an effort to read the local paper and to see what's going to because that directly affects me.
But I, I think on the whole, most people don't, feel that way.
Or don't look, even look at that.
I think they just don't even,
I, I don't think they're conscious of it.
Well, maybe part of the problem is they don't, they think they have enough choices.
Well, that may be true, too.
I hadn't thought of that.
You know, in some of the European countries, they have numbers of parties that run
and then lot of more voters come out to vote than vote in this country.
And sometimes it's,
well, not sometimes, but many times it's who has the most money to spend on the largest campaign
and, and issues get, bogged down.
Well, maybe it's a matter of, you know, voter awareness.
I think voter awareness,
I, I did some work for the, Women's League of, Voters, several years ago
and, I think there are some organizations that used to, do some voter awareness, things.
They don't get a lot of participation.
They don't get a lot of, activity.
Most of the League of Women Voters, what they did was they put out information, so that it, it would just be made available to everyone.
Now, other areas that I've worked in, like in the chambers, they would just have the candidates come
and it would just, you know,
that was not a lot of community involvement
and those were people that would mostly vote anyway.
Well, I think part of the problem is the election goes on way too long.
In Britain, you know, they have a set period of time
and, and for campaign, that's it.
In this country, it seems like it's a continuous ongoing campaign.
It's a, it's an ongoing campaign
and it's expensive campaign
and it, it, eliminates a lot of qualified people.
maybe more qualified and, more dedicated to the issues.
Well, the, they don't want to spend the time
or they don't have the money.
and it, it,
I, I can't b , I just can't believe,
I've, I've worked in a couple of local campaigns.
I just cannot believe the dollars that are spent just even locally.
Well, it's a matter of name recognition.
People aren't going to vote for someone they've never heard of.
Oh, well, I agree with that,
but also,
and I, and I'm not for controlling how much is spent,
but do you know,
that's one thing,
if a, if the time wasn't so,
if it wasn't such a long, campaigning time, then they couldn't spend as much money.
And even debates don't seem to help much.
they really don't.
it's al , it's, a lot of it is who looks the best, who, who happens to say the right thing at the right time, who, not, who may not be the most qualified and can get the b , the job done.
So we're really voting for the best makeup person and the best handlers.
And it's a, it's a lot,
I've worked in public relations a lot
and, that kind of thing can make and break, make or break you
as you can remember , Clayton Williams' campaign.
Well, that was certainly a media event.
It really was
and it's just,
he possibly could have, won that election had it not been for some of the , the, the way he presented himself.
Well, he had a classic case of hoof in mouth disease.
Hoof, is, is, I guess the right term for him.
thank you.
I understand we're supposed to talk about spaceflight.
I hope you know more about it than I do.
, I just got through SPACE by, James Michener.
is that right?
that, helped out a little bit I think.
I haven't read his book.
I was so upset with TEXAS that I haven't gotten into any more of his books because I thought it was just horrible.
he tends to go into a lot of detail sometimes.
I don't think he was truthful in a lot of what he did in TEXAS
I wasn't sure how credible he was.
is that right?
what do you think we've gained from the spaceflights?
, I'm not sure to be honest with you,
this going to the moon seemed to be a exciting adventure
Ego trip.
it was nice to go there,
I don't know that it really benefitted mankind that much.
I happen to live not too far away from,
I've actually worked for the company that, has been blamed for the Challenger disaster.
is that right?
Morton Thiakol.
that's been kind of real negative feeling here
it was, very unfortunate thing that occurred there
Where do you live?
we live in, Utah.
You live in U ,
am I talking to Utah right now?
I'm in Dallas.
I have a sister that lives in Dallas,
that's how we got hooked up to the program was her
I see.
her husband works for Penney's there.
I see.
Carolyn Rash?
Pardon me?
Is her name Rash, Carolyn Rash?
No, Skidmore.
I see.
husband's name is, his last name is Weight.
I see.
you probably know a lot about it.
I wasn't sure that they were blaming that disaster on one company.
I hadn't heard that.
they were.
There was,
apparently the specifications for the joints,
they were not to perform in, cold weather
apparently there was definitely joint that did not seal,
if you've ever seen the size of those, motors
that put them into space,
they're as long as a football field practically and
about twelve foot in diameter
there is a to get that much weight up in the air.
interesting, though.
talked about how a lot of the problems they have to to,
it's a very complex, situation to go into space.
I would think so, too .
They would,
the thing that he went into quite a bit of detail about much of a problem it is to re enter the Earth's atmosphere.
You never think about that do you?
I would think it would be harder to get up than it would be
Yeah .
getting back down.
they have to come in at just the right angle.
If you come in at the wrong angle, what happens is they bounce off and go back into space
if they come into it at a different angle there is so much friction that it burns them up.
I saw those early space capsules at Smithsonian.
I'm sure you've
seen more of them than I have,
you could see the scorch on them,
they had though piles
you could see because it was still the scorch on them which was quite interesting.
go ahead.
I've never, I've never seen an actual capsule.
I've seen of the motors they
produced out there.
these were the ones that John Glenn went up in
and the old, old ones.
The very first ones,
the little bell type things.
People have commented how, they were surprised at how small they were.
they really were,
Looked pretty
the whole thing was small
actually put it on ,
Is that right?
You put it around you pretty much,
it was so small.
I thought there was some medical benefits that we have learned from space,
did he go into that in the book?
Not really. ,
I guess that's just to sell us on it.
One thing's,
I know one thing mentioned that I didn't get from the book, by the way,
it talked about,
they're able to manufacture, different kinds of crystals
and ball bearings and things like that in a zero gravity state that they turned out being perfect as far as a ball bearing goes.
It's perfectly round.
I'm not sure you have to go to outer space to achieve that zero gravity.
that's true
That's right .
do you think we should continue to support it at the level,
I thought probably one of the things they were doing that they didn't tell us was spying.
I think those satellites, or not satellites, but the spaceflights could really spy
with Russia's demise, I didn't know if we should continue to support it at the current level.
I think they have cut it back, to be honest with you.
the glory days when they did the Apollo shots to the moon.
I appreciate having the satellites.
that's certainly made it nice for other purpose.
I don't know if you have a satellite dish or not.
We don't
I don't.
I don't
I know that's certainly helped a lot
in that regard.
go ahead.
What are we supposed to discuss again?
AIDS research is something that,
More money (( )),
that, I think th , whether our country is putting enough money into it
and actually I'm concerned that they're not.
I have a friend who is working with, who works with, travel groups,
and one of the ones that he's w , worked with was professionals who came in for an AIDS, conference in, California.
And these were from other, people from other countries.
He's a translator.
And in talking to the people from France he said, you know,
he says, one of the things that really concerns me is your government is not telling you enough about how it ((pervasive)) and frightening this epidemic is.
And they're letting,
the information out slowly about how, you know, how big it is.
Which is scary, you know, pretty scary when so many people get it.
So, I guess I'm, I'm, I'd like to see us spend more.
I don't know that spending more always gets it.
I'm, I'm ambivalent about it because, i , well it is very frightening and scary.
I have no perspective on how it relates to other diseases,
and, I mean whether,
You mean more money for that means less for cancer or,
Y , yeah.
And, whether those diseases can yo ,
some difference could be made if you did pour more money in like diabetes research
didn't, you know,
but I,
then t , part of it's lack of education.
I don't know whether, whether, you know, where our money would be most effectively spent.
Well it,
I, I agree with you there
because I know every time that i , something comes into vogue all the money goes to that one
and you don't know whether it's still also going to the other or if it's a limited pie.
Money from, money for taking care of the infants takes money away from taking care of the elderly,
or do they both get served?
that's a good point.
And I'm, I am concerned a lot about, I'm concerned about, two things.
One is preventing the spread
and the other is for, for, treating the illness.
And I'm not certain,
I, I,
again this,
I'm telling you,
basically I don't have any opinion.
But whether or not it would be, our money would be better spent, teaching, you know, working on the drug problems and the, and the sex problems, rather than trying to cure the people that already have it.
Well, and one of the things I'd,
and I'm with you that I don't know is, is that really the only way it's being transmitted or was that the easier way to tell us and we're going to find out more.
well, you know,
That's, that's the part that,
t , d , whether my dentist or ,
That's the part that scares me, you know.
I mean beginning with this is, this is just for homosexuals,
well no,
it's for homosexuals and gays,
well no,
actually, it's,
I mean, you know.
Did they know that all along?
An , and I heard something the other day, this sounds ridiculous, about mosquitoes.
And, you know, they've been saying oh, no, absolutely not.
Can't get it from mosquitoes.
And, and now they are saying well maybe in the right conditions,
And I don't know that's true or not.
I mean, I just heard it in passing,
but so what does that,
Right. .
what does that mean for people that you work with and shake hands with and ,
And how is it really transmitted,
et cetera.
Which is, I think, what they also don't know.
I mean that's,
I think they, they told us what was convenient and felt safe to say, you know.
It was nice to isolate it to one particular community that they have trouble, you know, they just as soon not approve of anyway,
but, but that isn't how it was in Africa.
In Africa was the men and women and, and had nothing to do with that,
and it's huge over there.
So I, I, you know,
and it's beginning, t , other countries
that's what's his point.
This was an international,
conference where people are saying, well, but in my country it's, you know, like this.
And does that mean like flus and everything else, there are all these different strains of it?
I mean I don't know.
All I'm saying is I think it's scarier than we know.
or maybe they understand but,
I think maybe more information should be given out about it.
and, and then the people that have it,
it does seem that there are, are some drugs that are there that, you know, they keep holding back.
If you, if I were dying, I'm not sure I would care.
I, I, give me cyanide.
I mean, is it (( )),
I'll take anything
you know.
I mean if I'm dying, if I know I'm dying,
Ri ,
you can experiment on me.
Go ahead.
And why can't you, why can't the F D A say, you know, i , if these people knowingly consent to be,
research monkeys and well, let them,
let them,
do it.
And that's what I think they're saying too.
Have you s , had any snow up your way?
we haven't had any since, oh, just before Christmas
we had a lot before Christmas.
The ski resorts were really
but, now we have, we've had fog, for about forty days in a row and temperature inversion,
but no, no snow.
The snows all melted off ((mount)),
Well, I talked to a woman who lived up in the hills,
mountains in, Utah, I guess this last weekend
and she had, quite a bit of snow on the ground her way.
I guess there's different parts of the state of Utah that, that, does have some,
but not,
usually we have up to a hundred and fifty inches up at the ski resorts
and they're down between thirty eight and, forty inches.
At this time of the year,
and we've been in a drought for the last five years
and this is the sixth year
and it's getting quite serious, as far as water next summer.
well, the weather, here, is always a topic of conversation in Texas.
But, we have wide variations and have warm weather when most people have cold weather,
but we have our share of cold weather as well.
The, temperature this morning was right at freezing.
It didn't stay there,
but it was right at,
Oh, that's, that's different, isn't it?
We usually have some of our coldest weather toward the, end of January,
but this year it wasn't bad at all.
I guess that's because we had so much rain.
I know my son was telling me about the rain down there.
He said it was just,
and we read in the newspaper, southern part of Texas I ((guess))
Oh, yeah.
flooded out,
Well, my, my sister lives in Houston
and they,
the river there was, in the flooding stage near where her son lives,
and that, caused some, concern, of course.
Oh, boy.
They have a, lake cabin
and, their dock was completely under water
Oh, my gosh.
on the lake.
So we really had a lot of rain.
Yeah my son in Plano, he lives fairly close to,
there's quite a wash that goes down, through Plano
and, there's walking trails on both sides, a walking path,
and, when I've gone down to visit him I've gone on that,
but, that was clear full and up to, up to some of the streets, I guess.
It just k ,
we had a lot of flash floods in the area.
We had a few people who ran into, water and a few fatalities, just a few.
Not more than ten
That's funny that, we can't have it in moderation instead of having either a drought or having too much.
Well, the,
there's an old profane expression about Texas weather,
it's always too damn cold, too damn hot, too damn windy .
well, it's, interesting,
I'm going down to El Paso next week
and, I was wondering what the weather was,
but I imagine if it's that cold in Dallas it,
Well, El Paso won't be cold.
It's not a, doesn't get that cold, I guess, huh?
it's, it's, quite southern
and it's, it's rare to get real cold in, in El Paso.
The, you'll be flying in there?
Well, take off is, fun from El Paso because you normally,
the way the winds are you take off right toward the mountain, the Rockies
and they're towering above you
and so you circle back over the air and then make a circle around and come back over again.
we're kind of used to that here in Utah,
course, there are mountains,
and I fly into Montana a lot
and we have a,
the mountains are, are really, high
and a lot of places we go in to, you just kind of,
it's in the little valley,
but, I, sure hope we,
we really need the moisture.
I hope we can get, get some.
There's supposed to be a storm,
but it split, went down through, northern Arizona and southern Utah
and they're not predicting any for the next, week anyway up here
Well, I noticed on the weather map on, cable network that there was supposed to be a storm front moving into California and on down your way,
but I guess it didn't pan out, huh?
well, that's, that's what the,
(( )) above,
some of it went to the south and some to the north up into Montana,
so that just left us,
we got a high pressure
system which ((has been sitting in the air))
and, we broke the record for the amount of fog that we've had, you know
Oh, boy.
airport's been shut down, till about noon every day
and then they seed the clouds, or seed the fog to try to
to get the airplanes in and out.
we, had a bad siege last, Christmas a year ago.
We went up to visit my wife's, sister who lives in, Calgary, Alberta, Can,
the topic's about government.
I'm not altogether sure that that's my best topic.
I thought it was kind of a strange topic about corruption in the government and
how many people are self serving.
huh .
I, I think people tend to think that the government is not corrupt .
And that people aren't self serving.
that's what I would like to think.
I think that the last, part of that question was particularly interesting, about, be made illegal
because seems to me that when , government or public service of any kind degenerates so much that you have to have so many explicit ethical codes
parallel to the legal codes that, we're focusing on the wrong thing.
that's what is happening.
Maybe so many things have become public with the media over the past, ten to twenty years
((Right)) .
that, it becomes more evident.
Perhaps things that we didn't think of before and just concentrated on the lawmaking or the results that would be seen in public works or bills that are passed or, et cetera like that
we were just not exposed to the personal lives of these persons.
I couldn't help thinking when that last quest ,
when that last part of the question came about many things can we, actually put a legal code on
how much, should it be our, prerogative to see into the private lives of these people.
that makes sense.
you start prying in people's private lives, you ruin their lives as well as,
That's right.
sometimes, I don't even know how much of a difference it really makes,
I guess in some cases, we care about what they did in the past
sometimes, I don't know
I think it gets in the way of the better judgment.
just because you did something in the past doesn't mean he's not a good enough person to be a politician.
I agree with that also that if the results that they're putting out and what they actually seem to be accomplishing by
legitimate means is what's, going to the public
they'll pay for their private life in their own private conscience.
That's it.
when it becomes public, though, it becomes scandalous.
that's the thing that,
things that you don't know
do not worm their way around and influence other people or perhaps lead other people astray.
People could say, they do it,
I guess,
as soon as things do get public
is that terrible concern.
sometimes I ask myself, what are, people doing that are in the media
when somebody, comes up to office,
it seems that one of the first thing that's done is to dig up any kind of a thing they can on them
and get it all over the headlines.
I guess it's what sells newspapers,
It's a very low way of living.
as far as, myself having any particular personal, knowledge or insight into politics or politicians, not terribly involved in it.
huh .
Just in a very cursory way.
I vote
I, try to do whatever I can on the little local area,
i , it just is not one of the things that I have, placed, lot of my particular time and effort
always feel very outside
an issue.
I am kind of the same way.
I just kind of read the paper
follow up on peop ,
just keep an eye on what's going on
I don't really play an active role
in any kind of
politics .
in there,
I'm not one of those, volunteers that's down at headquarters and whatever, although I admire the people that do that
they certainly do get inside information
of course, the better you know a person that might be affiliated with that kind
of thing, the more you can trust judgment
and their insight.
the media insight, as you said,
I just kind of read and kind of be aware
I don't like to make a whole lot of, judgment
unless things are so absolutely out of whack that,
All right.
That's a real different topic.
I'm not sure I'm familiar with, with what they mean of invasion of privacy.
I know.
I guess that, I guess you consider just things that every day that would, you would think of about.
See, I'm a college student,
so I can think of lots of things that my roommate does that bother me
you know, that I think's like is an invasion of my privacy, stuff like that.
But I think
it'd be, it is kind of a tough topic.
I think, personally, you know,
I'm, I used to be a college student
ten years ago
but now I think an invasion of my privacy is when someone calls me on the telephone
and says, Mrs Miller, have we got a deal for you.
Oh, golly.
You're like, No, you don't, no.
It's like, how do you know my name,
where did you get my phone number,
and why do you think it's a deal for me?
I mean, those people, they'll call you any time of the day or night with, try to solicit
and that's an invasion of my privacy, I think.
They call late,
now, I mean, now there's, I heard that they were going to start calling on Saturdays or some ,
Oh, they do already.
See, that's ridi ,
I would be so mad .
and I've even had the computer generated calls on Sundays, too.
But I do know of a way to get around the computer generated calls.
Don't answer your phone, Hello.
The computer's geared to, to start talking to you on the, on the word Hello.
I don't know,
I think like things that, that
I think's like privacy is like, just like, not going through my stuff, like going through, just like my clothes or my drawer, just going through my stuff, basically.
Oh, yeah.
That drives me up a wall.
Are you and your roommate a similar size.
see, we're not,
And she still goes through your clothes?
she'll take all my shirts and stuff,
because she can't wear like my pants
but she'll take all my shirts and my blouses and stuff.
Man, I'm just glad she can't wear my pants or my skirts or my dresses, you know.
Oh, yeah.
But still, she'll just take them,
and she won't even think about it,
and then, I'll like see her that day,
and she'll be wearing my clothes,
and I'll be like, you know, I don't like to borrow my clothes out, you know,
I really don't.
I prefer that you just not go in and get them
because she doesn't even ask me.
Stuff like that really ,
like that's an invasion of my privacy, I feel like.
Oh, yeah,
I agree.
Stuff like that,
when you have your door closed, people just walking in and stuff like that.
I was thinking like my mom.
I know this,
she would think this is like an invasion of her privacy, is like going through her purse, like if you ever needed money and stuff
Oh, yeah.
we always just give her her purse, you know,
and she'll
get it out or whatever.
I was trying to think,
I was thinking that's the only thing I could really think of that would really be.
My mom doesn't even like for us to go through her cabinets.
I mean, we're all grown,
all her kids are grown,
and we have our own families
and now if we go through her cabinets she's like, Well, what are you digging for?
get out of my cabinets.
Like, what are you doing?
Don't you have your own house to dig through?
That's great.
so, I guess, privacy is really,
and at the work place, I suppose,
oh, well, actually yes.
I can say definitely,
privacy at the work place.
I hate it for people to open up my drawer
to my desk
because that was, that was where I kept all my stuff,
and I could tell I mean, even if a pen was turned the wrong way.
You could tell,
you know you put your stuff where it's,
(( )).
That would drive, that would, that ,
It would drive, it drove me batty for a while.
well, I worked a second shift
and everybody else in my area worked first shift
and our shifts overlapped
so I would come in,
and there would be people sitting at my desk, working,
and I'm wondering, you know, what is this,
it's my vitamins,
I wonder, what is, you know, yeah, what is,
why are they working at my desk,
and can I have it back.
Can I have it back soon, maybe.
Then you start missing stuff,
Oh, yeah,
no mommy is going to take the vitamins,
I'm sorry,
I have (( )) .
That's okay.
See that would, that would make me really mad,
because you can always tell when someone's touched your stuff,
just because,
I mean, I know I have everything like a certain way
(( )).
and you know how it looks and everything.
Oh, yeah.
Well, you know how you left it the day before.
That would bother me, definitely.
Oh, yeah,
so, that's,
I agree,
it's, it's pretty tough that way,
and, I know, even like with your school books and papers.
Do you miss your papers sometimes?
You know.
That's the only thing I can really think about being an invasion of privacy, like something every day, though.
well, actually I do know,
and I have used it once
and it, it really is an invasion of privacy,
but in the library there's a book that you can find out what people's phone numbers are by where they live, their street address.
Oh, really?
And that,
I mean, I've, I've used it once,
All right,
well d , d , do you play any musical instruments or,
I don't play any.
I used to.
Oh well,
I think everybody took piano lessons
I, I started when I was in, third grade,
and I've, I still play the piano as of today.
Do you?
I do.
I started,
I think I was in the fifth grade
and I played it for maybe three months .
But, then, again, I was also in, the marching band.
I played the drums,
I played the clarinet,
I played the trumpet.
Wow .
you know, whatever
and so I,
I still sing,
and I sing in the choir today
All right .
I en , I enjoy the music,
it gives me an out.
It always sounds like,
for my playing the piano when I was depressed and didn't have anything else to do and there was no one to play with I could always go play with the piano, you know.
True .
So, how long did you play?
Only for about three months.
Three months.
me and my brother both took the classes
and we got pretty bored quick .
I was going to say, y , y , you got as far as the, chop sticks, huh.
well, I could play, the wood chuck song.
Oh, the wood chuck song .
And I still can to this date.
And your mother's saying, and although, the money that we spent for those piano lessons
this is all we got was the wood chuck song .
they went out and bought us a piano
and for three months .
Oh, bless your heart.
Did you ever, did you ever just bang on it or do anything with it at all.
Oh, yeah,
any time I got bored .
Oh, okay,
but I mean, can you play anything on it, other than wood chuck song?
And Jaws,
but I think everybody can.
I c , I, I can still read music if I'm lucky
because I,
if I work real hard I can still barely read the music,
but, see, I played the piano
from the third grade all the way through high school,
I played chic , concertos and other stuff
I got to the point where I wasn't really reading music, I was memorizing music,
so because of that, I can't read music as well as I used to,
but I enjoy it, though.
I find it to be a good out
and I still enjoy the marching band
and I still enjoy, singing in the choir
Do you sing at choir at your church?
I do.
I do.
in fact, that's about the only musical thing that I still do
is sing in the choir.
I tried out for choir when I was, think, in the seventh grade
and they wouldn't let me in.
I never tried again.
I sing in the choir,
I do know if they want me to or not,
but at least I do sing in it .
That's pretty good.
I never really learned the music or anything.
I never learned,
I got right to where I was figuring out where all the keys were on the piano
and that's about when I quit.
I was at,
I actually went to the University of Texas at one time thinking that I would, c , be a musician.
I wanted to be a high school band director.
But after one semester of that, I said n , no,
this isn't for me.
enjoy it, but not for profession, no.
And besides that I kind of learned I wasn't really that good .
I gave up.
Course, my mom thought I was,
but, you know,
Of course,
parents always do.
Oh, yeah,
They're nice that way.
Well, what else can we d , talk about,
well, I don't, d ,
so you listen to kind of church music, gospel?
I, I listen to K V I L.
Oh, yeah?
So I listen to the radio,
I like the pop music.
Oh, yeah.
I like people like Neil Diamond and all, all the folks that you're not supposed to like,
but that's who I go for .
Oh, yeah,
the jeezer music as I call it.
Oh, the jeezer music.
Oh, okay,
My boss listens to that.
We listen to ninety seven point nine
and that's his station, so I call it the jeezer music.
now what d , kind of music do you listen to?
Well, I listen to like ninety seven point one, you know, more,
What d , what is that?
It's more,
I don't know how to explain it,
kind of pop, you know, rock.
Hard rock?
Well, not hard .
Not hard rock.
Just kind of,
Not like the eagle.
Is that the eagle?
I know, I know what the eagle is.
It's not too hard,
That's not too hard.
You know.
But it's not enough to put you to sleep .
Which some of the songs on K V I L can.
Well, course, see, I listen to K V I L for the contests.
I mean ,
Oh, yeah,
got the bumper sticker, too?
Oh, yes,
oh, yes.
You can't drive a car without bumper sticker
and you know they're going to call you up.
Yeah .
Well, listen, I've enjoyed talking.
I, I'm sure that the switchboard will probably give us that sign off message very shortly anyway.
I appreciate it.
Catch you later.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
Okay .
Okay .
Have you done this very long?
well, yeah,
for the last, couple of months.
that's the same with us.
Well, what kind of car would you buy?
Well, it's kind of hard to say,
because I don't think we're going to buy another car for about three years.
We just
Oh, okay.
bought, a car, last year and then bought one in eighty nine
O ,
wait a minute,
we bought one in ninety.
We've got three cars, of all things.
So, probably we'll be in at least a midsize, four door sedan.
What kind do you have now?
we have a, a Mazda nine twenty nine and a Ford Crown Victoria and a little two seater C R X.
Oh, okay.
it's rather difficult to, to project what kind of,
we'd, look, always look into, consumer reports to see what kind of, report, or, repair records that the various cars have
and then, of course, we look into the prices.
And, f , we're not adverse to buying along in the summer when, when the cars could get to be discounted
because we keep, we've begun to keep them, long , a longer period of time.
I traded off an eighty two Oldsmobile for the eighty nine Mazda.
Oh, huh.
And did you find that you like the foreign cars better than the domestic?
We, we've had thirty some odd cars in our married life,
and, we, we've had a good many foreign cars.
And, they, they,
I've been extremely,
we've had three Mazdas.
We've been extremely pleased with our Mazdas.
Oh, really?
We've always bought American made cars, mostly Oldsmobiles.
well, we, we've had,
let's see,
we had, we had a,
let me think.
We had a fifty three
and a, we had, two fifty threes which is a long thirty minute story .
and we had a sixty five
and then we had this eighty two.
So we, we really can't complain about Oldsmobiles, really.
we've been real pleased with ours.
I think we've had, one, two, three
and most,
we have a Cutlass, we still have a Cutlass Supreme which is like, a seventy seven.
Then we have a Cutlass Sierra
and we've had the ninety eight.
but I don't know,
we'll, we're going to be in the market for a car, probably in the next year
and , the financing is always something we consider, you know, the four percent or when they
give good financing through the, the motor company.
But, I don't know what we're going to buy.
I always thought I would like to try a foreign made car,
but, boy, with all the auto workers being laid off, makes me feel guilty .
my son over in Shreveport, sold Porsches, Audis, Mad , Mazdas and Volkswagons for ten years
and that was one of the deciding factors in getting the Mazdas.
so, the first foreign car that we had was a, a seventy seven M G, M G B
Oh the,
Was British gr , racing green, with real wire wheels and a hard top and a soft top.
And, I drove it mostly.
I'll bet
it was hard to part with that.
it really was.
My husband was in the Air Force
and we got transferred to Okinawa.
So, we had to sell it.
W , which really tore me up .
Oh, yeah.
Because, it, it w , it was great fun.
And then, when we got to Okinawa, well, we bought a second hand,
we, we decided that,
we had this, sixty five Oldsmobile
and it, and it was just too big,
so we, we sold it to a fellow who was coming back to the States
and we got a little Fiat, and a, and the little, forty horse power Mazda, four door sedan.
So what do you think about caring for older folks Dale?
Well, I think, the elderly is a really neat population to care for.
They've got a lot of special needs
and at the same time, the majority of them don't want to give up the independence that they have.
very definitely.
And so you've got a real balance to make there.
What about you?
Well, I'm thinking about it more in terms of my parents that are starting to get old.
They aren't really that old,
but they are, sort of wearing out.
My mamma is a dialysis patient
and she is only about sixty four,
but she's had some pretty close calls
and my daddy has to drive her to dialysis now
and so she's phasing out
and, but she's also a very, very, very independent person and doesn't like having having people, not being able to do things for herself when she wants to
I know they certainly don't want to be in a nursing home,
but my daddy keeps talking about it.
I don't,
I couldn't possibly,
couldn't never see him in a nursing home.
And my grand daddy also doesn't like, wouldn't want to be in a nursing home.
He's ninety, I think right on ninety right now
Oh really.
and he's living by himself.
My grand mamma died a couple of years ago
Oh, okay.
so but, he's, you know,
as long as you can have the families take care of the people, I'd like to see them stay at home.
but it gets hard.
My, my grandmother is in her mid eighties
and she's, suffering from, well, progressive Alzheimer's Disease
so she doesn't remember anybody
and, she remembers things,
but they are things back whenever she was real young
and so, with,
she was living by herself
but my, uncle has moved in with her to take care of her
and it's creating a lot of problems.
especially for your uncle I bet.
Oh yes.
Now a friend of mine who was studying social work here in Philadelphia worked for an adult day care program for mostly for patient's with Alzheimer.
Do they have anything like that in Dallas.
In Dallas,
I've, I've heard of several things
and they are really neat programs to be able to do if you can link up with them,
but sometimes it's hard to either find the connections to get them in or, to be able to get them there for the day program and pick them up.
So they are pretty limited.
Oh, another interesting thing,
another good friend of mine who got her degree in social gerontology wa , well had a job for a while where she went around to to folks and had them, sort of kicked them in the pants to make them take good care of their older relatives.
Oh really.
To make sure that they would take care of their responsibilities.
I don't think that was mainly with Alzheimer's patients, but just patients, people in general who were not as independent as they use to be.
Well, it, it's, it's a really, day care programs are really neat, you know
and if the, if the people are able and and can get up and move and everything like that, that is one of the best things to do,
but I think the hardest thing to do is whenever you've got a person who's mentally very alert and active
huh .
and their body just hasn't kept up with them
and I think that's in a way it's more, some, an area where some of the day care, programs have left off
because you really kind of have to be a little bit mobile to be able to do those.
to, get there and to participate in the activities.
Cause I know, there's one not too far from from me here in Dallas.
and they have ceramics and pottery and needle work
and sports.
But if your vision is gone and you have arthritis real badly,
That's true.
You can't play those things.
you can't do it.
But you can sing songs and,
Well, that's true.
and tell stories about the old times.
I guess, you know, you were talking about your,
was it your grand mother
that was having Alzheimer
being able to tell old stories.
You can perhaps get a group of people that aren't too far along with Alzheimer talking about the old times and enjoying it themselves that way.
And they love to recollect.
I mean they just, you know,
and they will just go on and on with these stories
and they have such a memory.
Do they like to listen to other people recollect though?
My grandmother doesn't .
She, she wants to te , to tell you about her story over again
which is fine, you know,
Well, that is good because we,
so what do you think?
I lived, I lived in Sweden for two years.
And in Sweden they have socialized medicine.
And so I saw some of the good
and also I saw some of the bad that results from such a program.
some of the, some of the good obviously that nobody has to worry about health care.
So it's a very, it's a very, comfortable,
I mean our people are very comfortable in the sense that, you know, there's no medical emergency that's going to make you destitute for life.
the bad was more apparent I think at least for me
because I think it affected people's lives on, in a way that you could see.
One, one thing that I noticed is it's very, very convenient to be alcoholic in Sweden.
Oh, really?
Because it's treated as a disease.
Now I don't know if that necessarily has to be part of socialized medicine,
but, if you're, if you're alcoholic, then you're treated as if you're on disability, long term disability
and so there was very little incentive for people to get out of that.
Also, another thing that, that I noticed that was very strange,
I was, I would go down all these,
I remember this one row of houses
and they were, row houses or townhouses,
all connected together so it was like lower middle class housing.
Well, it would be lower middle class housing here.
It's probably middle class housing there.
and there was a taxi driver that lived in one of these
and there was a doctor that lived in one of these.
The one guy was a doctor
and one was a taxi driver,
and so their, their incomes were about the same.
Whereas here, there is a great incentive to be a doctor because there's a great financial reward.
And that, that didn't exist in Sweden.
And, overall I gue , their, their health care suffered fair amount from just the fact that the doctor salaries were lower
and it was, it was less professional
and it was treated more,
like a, like a taxi driver type job,
then a, then a doctor type job.
I ,
that is, that is something I've heard.
I had a friend, that I worked with that was from Sweden
and that was,
probably the, the major concern I have is that, you know, we are leading in the technology realm of, of medicine just because it is such a great incentive to, to get into, the medical field,
but at the same time it's real hard.
I mean my husband works for a company that provides insurance
and so, you know, I'm real, you know,
it's like well, you know, you know,
there's got to be better ways, you know, to do some things
but, you know, I hate to,
the, the competition, i , in a lot of ways is, is wonderful just because you can choose your doctor
and, and, they have to compete to be, to be good and to be knowledgeable.
But at the same time, there's a, you know, they're regulating themselves
and, and the hospitals are charging just enormous amounts for products that they don't have to pay very much for.
My, I have a brother who's a vet
and for something that he can get, you know, wholesale
and I'm sure they can get a lot cheaper because they, they, hospitals buy in such a bulk rate,
you know, they could charge you twenty dollars for a dollar fifty item
and that's ridiculous.
And I don't think that is, that is, abnormal in any means to be doing things like that.
You don't think it's abnormal?
I don't think it's abnormal for hospitals to be doing that at all .
Oh, I see.
You're not saying it's right,
you're just saying it's common.
I ,
And so i , i , it's, I think, i , to me I think, something that's going to help our medical, arena is for,
and I don't know how to, I don't know how to do this
but I think people are too lawsuit happy.
And I mean things will happen
and, and you've got to, keep up
or you've got to realize that, you know, i , it is just men or women that are, that are making, decisions
and they will make mistakes
and e , e , you know, i , if people, you know, i ,
there are some people that I'm sure make mistakes because they just don't keep on top of it,
but there are other things that just happen that you can't, you know, you can't say, you know, well, if you had just done this, you know, things would have done differently,
and, I don't know.
I, I think the fact that malpractice has gone up I think has raised our prices just dramatically.
in the, in the last number of years
and I think that's something that if, if they could work on the cause of that and,
((Well)) it's,
I'll start off here.
I don't know.
I get, probably, most of my information either from the newspaper or from C N N.
I like C N N because it, you know, repeats it,
well HEADLINE NEWS repeats every half hour
but it
makes it really convenient cause I keep a rather hectic schedule
but the newspaper p , provides a little bit of depth
that you can't really get from,
I, I think I'd agree.
A, a s , similar method of getting the news with me too.
It's, C N N has been a welcome addition to (( )) the T V scene here in the,
last, number of years.
p , prior to cable, you know, you didn't get much news off of normal, television broadcasts.
just usually pretty local in, in nature
and, and I like, C N N because you get some world, world events too
which is not too common on, on the other format, newspapers, and so forth.
I know, the,
my only major objection is that, I don't think American media spends enough, attention on, on our closest neighbors like Mexico and Canada.
That, that's true, you know.
You hardly ever see, headline articles about the, either the economics or, or other wor , news events going on in either of those countries.
whereas if you pick up a, a European paper, you know, it, all the surrounding countries, Soviet Union, and everything has, major news, articles in them.
I mean, you know, Canada has gone through a lot of problems now with, with Quebec and, and everything
and, it's amazing that,
you know, I, I listen to D C area and the WASHINGTON POST, you know,
I mean the most they'll give it is the back of the A section.
you know.
I'm, I'm currently living in Dallas
and it, it won't even give it the back section .
You just,
never see, you just never see anything about it,
which is a shame because you go to other countries,
and, and they carry quite a bit about the U S on the other hand.
And if you go up to, Canada, those people are usually pretty, familiar with the politics going on and and the
news (( )) U S
and we're pretty, limited in our understanding of, of leaders up in Canada or Mexico.
You just don't know what's going on.
I'd, I,
every once in awhile, I have to travel overseas
and lately I've taken the, taken a little shortwave radio, around and picking up the B B C
and it's sort of like, a C N N too.
you can tune into some stations
and you get some, like thirty minute summaries of, of news events.
I occasionally get into some of the middle eastern, area
and that's the only way you can tell what's going on at all .
There's not much in the way of television in some
of those places.
but that's a good point about, about the neighboring countries.
I hadn't really thought about it
but I guess you don't think about it cause you don't hear it.
I, spent this past summer up in Canada.
well part of it, touring.
And, you know, i , I was amazed cause I'd pick up a local paper and I'd read about all of these, you know, really interesting things going on.
There's some serious talk about whether there's actually going to be a, a Canada, you know, in the next five years.
You know, because of the problems with Quebec
and n , I had never heard any of that before.
you know, there was, a, a,
what is it called,
is it Meech Lake Accord?
Or, or, i , that's just something, I'd say ninety percent of the people here would never have heard of
and I think that I heard of it about the first time when I was up in Calgary a couple of years ago and, you know, picked up a, a paper and started reading a little bit more detail about it.
And, and c , came (( )),
it was a big thing going on there
and I came back here
and nothing in the papers.
I didn't see a thing about it.
So it's, we've got a long ways to go, I guess.
It's improved.
And like I say, with C N N and, and, the cable news.
Even, even there's,
it's sor , it's semireligious in some respects.
But what is it?
It's, I mean it's news is not, not that way,
oh, I'm trying to think of the channel.
The, the CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR.
Oh, yeah.
I, it surprised me.
I've caught it a few times
and they, they do some pretty good news.
seemingly unbiased news broadcasts.
the, the title of the network is sort of surprising.
You'd think it would carry mostly religious
but it, it doesn't seem to.
So I'll flip through and listen to it once in awhile too, and catch something maybe a little different than, than C N N might be covering.
some more in , interest type topics in, in other countries.
But it's kind of world, world, network too.
I, I guess I've never seen the T V show.
I used to get the,
A, Golden Retriever.
one of my favorite kinds of dogs.
Is it really?
How long have you had it?
We've had him for,
he just had his fourth birthday.
Fourth birthday.
we got him when he was about eight weeks old
he's pretty okay,
we like him.
Does he shed a lot?
He does.
That's the one thing we don't like about him.
In fact, we threaten him in the summertime that we might just shave all of his hair off.
He'd probably look pretty funny if we did that.
How much does he weigh now?
just went to the vet yesterday to get his shots and everything,
they put him on the scale
he's up to ninety four now.
tall, dog for a Golden Retriever.
He's kind of stocky, shorter and stockier.
Is he good with family?
He is.
It's, just me and my wife
he's kind of our temporary substitute for having kids.
We treat him like our kid right now so he's spoiled rotten.
I can
understand that
Get away with that a little bit more with pets than you can with kids .
How about you?
we have a cat who's also about four years old.
he's our spoiled child right now, too .
he also sheds a lot.
hope to get a Golden Retriever someday.
we figure we'll get the kids and then dog .
That's probably a good idea.
They're good though.
have you ever had a Retriever before?
my husband had one when he was growing up.
find that they're good around other animals like cats and other dogs.
They don't tend to get real jealous or territorial.
They like to play.
Especially with the kids.
They love to play with kids.
your dog an inside and outdoors?
he's pretty much an inside dog.
He stays in.
kind of in real busy neighborhood, but more so than I'd want him to be out too much
he doesn't like it if we tie him outside.
He's really a wimp.
when it comes to being alone,
if you give him the freedom to walk around and go wherever he wants, he likes that,
he does not like to be tied outside.
just bark and bark and bark.
when he gets outside, he run away and then eventually come back?
he's, taken to the training pretty well
he knows where our yard is
we have a pretty small yard,
he seems to know the boundaries.
he usually is good about staying within them,
our next door neighbors have a dog, too
is good friends with my dog.
he often gets to smelling her scent and will go over there to sniff around and stuff
he's pretty good.
He stays out of the street
if I catch him I call him
he comes back.
pretty good about taking to commands and
and things.
Did you bring him to a doggy obedience school or
we never did.
train him on your own
trained him on my own
this is the first dog I've had all my own as an adult.
when I was a kid,
is the first one that I, took in,
I wasn't sure if I'd be able to get it all right the first time,
seems to have picked it up pretty well.
never really to hit him or anything.
firm tone of voice and those
sorts of things.
see other people out there
they hit their dogs and try to,
those horrible collars that they put on them with fencing,
least I,
Invisible what?
Invisible fencing,
have you heard of that?
what is that?
a system you can put in your yard where you bury these little, transducers or emitters in your yard
at the perimeter
they wear a collar with a special little attachment on it
if they get too close to that perimeter, it
it zaps them.
Yeah .
I'd be afraid to walk around if I was that dog .
a friend of mine at work here said that he tried it with his dog
he wanted to see what he was subjecting his dog to
he held on to the collar
he walked out to the perimeter.
He said it was a good jolt.
don't take too well those
sorts of training techniques.
I don't think they're always necessary.
If you put enough patience into,
just be consistent and diligent
with it
your cat an indoor cat or an
outdoor cat?
he's indoor and all declawed because I know the, average life span of an outdoor cat is eighteen months.
Somebody just told me that
because of the leukemia?
that and also just, getting hit, I guess, or getting beat up.
the average life span of an indoor cat is eighteen years .
Quite a difference.
kind of climate do you have?
just moved recently
now we're in the, Dallas area
it's very
very nice
The only experience I have,
I don't have any children
but I've, I was a baby sitter in high school.
And then, just recently, after we were married, I baby sat for a dentist while she worked.
And I just, ...
That's the only thing I've ever done also, is baby sit.
Is it? .
But, I've heard people that I work with talk about, you know, child care.
Especially, I guess it's even harder on single mothers.
Oh, yeah.
The expense.
Having to pick up the kid by, you know, six o'clock
or it's five dollars for every minute you're late. And stuff like that .
Which is understandable.
I mean, these people can't, you know, stay there till eight o'clock
Just sit around .
because somebody has to work late
but .
that's true.
See the lady I did it for,
that's why she picked me is because I would go to her house so she wouldn't have to get her little girl up.
So she could sleep in.
And, then she could be at home
and then I'd bring her to my house for a couple of hours if I wanted too or whatever.
But, she paid, I think it was two or, I think it was about two fifty, three dollars a hour
and by the time I paid taxes on it, it, I was getting like eighty cents
and that wasn't counting food or
Oh, no.
gas or anything.
It's hardly worth your time.
That's pretty bad.
The only time I baby sat was in high school
and it, you know,
of course you don't ha ,
I didn't pay taxes on that,
It was easy, you know, go over to some,
it was these people that lived in our neighborhood
and I'd just go over there.
Every Thursday night, they went to the theater.
They had permanent tickets
and they'd give me,
it was supposed to be two dollars an hour for two kids,
but they would usually give me like five dollars more at the end of the night.
Oh, wow.
And, I mean, they'd, you know,
it was great.
I'd go over there
and there would be like, you know, there's, we have these videos over here.
whatever you want.
And there's some Oreos in the, in the cupboard.
And there's some Coke
and you know, just help yourself to anything.
it was, it was, you know, the best,
that was a long time ago
and that was only for a few years.
Just once a week.
But I don't know.
I think people that treat their baby sitters like that get a lot better baby sitters.
Oh, yeah.
That's true.
And they stick around for longer.
Because I mean after I figured out I was getting eighty cents an hour, I said bag it.
And I quit , you know.
I was just like but I'm wasting my time.
I really liked the little girl and everything
but I thought ...
She does take up,
and they do take up a lot of your time.
That ...
I ...
They're very demanding .
Well, and she was really spoiled.
They didn't make her eat anything she didn't want or anything.
So, basically, they fed her cookies for breakfast and lunch.
And the mom was a dentist
and I was just like, we've got to quit this.
And she's like no I don't want her to starve.
But I don't want to make her eat something she doesn't want to eat .
Oh, shoot.
My mom
would be like,
Eat this or .
eat it or don't eat anything.
That's right.
So, I can see the concerns on what different people want.
Because some,
I mean, you know, if I was setting up a daycare, there would be so many needs you would have to customize
your service to.
Cause some parents won't put up anything. Where others would.
I think,
I think the best way to go would just be to, to be able to do it out of your basement.
And just have like t , at the most, like ten kids.
And all from maybe people that you know
type of thing.
Instead of trying actually to set up a daycare where you don't know the people coming in and ...
That's true.
I, I'd love to do it.
But I just don't trust people now.
There's too many lawsuits.
I just, I think it's a bigger risk than ...
More than what it's worth?
It would scare me.
I don't know,
cause I'm sure some of them have good reason to sue
but I think a lot of them are just, you know, they're negligent
and they get happy about money
they just want to sue you.
Well, yeah.
When you have like a Kindercare or something set up
and th , when they get greedy or whatever, that's when they have maybe one assistant to twenty kids or something
Oh, yeah.
And that's just, you know,
you can't watch
That's impossible.
that many little kids getting into things at one time .
You know, you never know what they're going to get into.
I have a girlfriend that works at a daycare
and she takes her little girl with her
and, I mean, she told me about half the people that they hire
and half of them she'd like to turn them into the state .
And that's the people that are working there, you know.
And then she would like to turn in half of the parents that drop their kids off because of the condition the kids are in, you know.
Oh, that's horrible.
Like they'll be in the same clothes they were the day before, the same diaper.
You know, just awful things.
And so I don't know.
I don't have kids
but I always think man I just don't know if I could trust anybody.
I mean, you just don't know.
That's i ,
that's a hard thing about it.
If, I mean, I don , I can't foresee myself getting married
but if, you know, if I ever wanted to have a kid, how could I work.
I mean, I don't think I could trust somebody with my kid either.
Unless it
Oh, yeah.
That's true.
was a friend that, you know, did it in their house that I knew well.
I just, I couldn't do it I don't think.
It would just rip me apart, I think .
I don't know.
Just not knowing.
just besides the fact that, you know, your, when your child gets out of school at three o'clock and then has to wait.
What do you usually wear to,
Well, let's see.
It turns out that, TEK ,
I work at TEKTRONIX
and it's a very, low key place as far as dress goes.
You just wear,
let's see.
When I first came here, I wore suits
but after a while I got, found out that that wasn't all that important.
I'm an engineer.
Oh, I see.
And, so, I get to wear just, how shall I say it, walking shoes as
opposed to dress shoes and well walking, how shall I say it, kind of like Avia, walking shoes,
Well, that's nice comfortable stuff.
Open shirt, open at the neck, you know, no tie.
And, just, reasonable looking, how shall I say it, sports clothes or some guys wear, some people even wear Levis.
That's nice.
Now, being from Philadelphia, I don't expect your dress code to be quite that relaxed, right?
Well , actually right now I'm a full time college student
so my dress code is very, very (( )).
Oh, okay.
I usually wear jeans and stuff to classes or shorts in the summertime.
But over the summers I've had a job, internships with the newspaper.
And that's (( )) so,
generally then I dress, you know, nicer.
Usually nice summer slacks or more, sometimes skirts, stuff like that.
So, then it's still, you know, the emphasis is on comfort a lot because it's a lot of walking and coming ((in, out of the)) office
but you still have to have a professional imagine kind of thing.
To go out to meet people and interview people and stuff like that
well I, I just recently applied for a different job in the company here
Oh, really.
so I decided well I'd wear a suit.
And it, it was very interesting,
like I said, most of the people at, at this company don't wear suits.
most of the engineers and technical people are just very casual, almost the same clothes that, that you'd wear to school.
That must be nice atmosphere then.
Well, it has been.
Although the new president and C E O of the company is from a much more formal eastern, background.
And so the result is that,
so anyway I wore this suit
and I went over to, to one of the buildings that has a lot more of the financial people in it
and it, and I, I was almost converted because, the effect of that suit on the way people res , reacted and responded to me as opposed to the,
just to kind of,
how shall I say it,
they know you're there
but they don't ,
you don't,
there's no notice at all.
But when I wore a suit that day, it was obvious that people didn't know whether I was a worker bee or a manager.
So people, how shall I say it, made a, made much more effort to notice you, acknowledge your presence, say hello and, things like that,
That's interesting.
It's like a mini, little study there .
That's really interesting.
And so this dress for success thing, I think is,
by and large I've, I'm kind of, convinced that, by that, just that one, experience and then having talked to several other people that, that, unless you're in a, an environment where they're going to make fun of, of, of
better clothes, that better clothes always pay off.
That's interesting.
Doesn't mean they have to be,
how shall I say it,
th , they don't have to be the, the most, the absolute best
but, a little dressing a little bit above the standard, I think, would, pay off
so I'm in the process of telling my wife we got to go shopping for clothes again.
That's neat,
that's neat .
And, I, I don't know,
now I, I know eastern,
now the other thing we do here, of course, is a single, not quite a single climate.
We have, we do have some snow in the wintertime
and it can be quite warm in the summertime.
Not hot like,
I lived in the midwest for a while.
And I know that, you know, it can be freezing cold in the wintertime,
and hot and, sticky in the summertime.
We don't have that much.
It's, it's a very mild climate.
Oh, well that's nice.
That's good for the clothes budget, I would imagine.
it is.
Because here, gosh, we had,
the winter hasn't been bad this winter.
It's, it (( )) it's only snowed maybe once or twice
but it's been cold.
Low twenties, let's say,
and then the summer gets up to eighties, nineties
You interested in woodworking?
guess I am .
it just seems kind of funny that this is a topic of discussion.
I do, some, woodworking myself .
in fact, I'm in the middle of a project right now making a bed for my son.
What kind of
It's, it's, plywood, face, I guess.
I cut it out in the shape of a crayon box
I painted, about eight different, colors,
the crayons that are sticking up, it will be the headboard
I guess he's young.
yes .
He's about five and a half years old.
he'll be delighted.
Now I just have to finish it though.
delayed for a little bit because of work
now, I've got to jump back in and finish the,
I've got it all cut out,
it's all,
I've done most of the coloring
I've got to go a second layer with the yellow.
Did you do it with a jigsaw
do you have powered,
I did, jigsaw, and the, regular straight saw for some of it.
(( )) to do the turn cut.
how about yourself?
interested in woodworking.
I don't have lots of tools.
Our local schools have adult education in the evening
I use their tools an , and, some of their guidance.
I'm an artist.
I'm very handy
if I touch it, it turns into something us ,
That's great.
type of art do you focus on?
I'm very, *
I have a Master's degree
my projects had to do with acrylic painting,
I'm really interested in the crafts.
I make stain glass.
I've done some silver jewelry making
I kind of,
once I get really pretty good at something, I want to try something else .
Kind of jack of all trades, master of none.
I get good enough to sell it or have people say wow,
you didn't buy it,
you made it.
That's great!
like the thrill is gone
let's do something else.
You want to, a new field
signed up for a class in pottery making because I've never tried that yet
have a M F A what division of art?
actually have a Masters of art
it's in art education.
I'm a licensed teacher
jobs being what they are, I substitute teach
that way I have time for my kids too.
I've been fortunate that I can afford to work part time.
I don't know how long that's going to last .
they're cutting back,
I don't go in all that often
I've been real interested in some of those cute kind of things.
Yeah . *
I see stuff in craft galleries for five hundred dollars
I say, no
I go
I make it.
That's how I started jewelry making.
love to cook.
that's great.
I saw a silver necklace that had these little teeny weeny silver spatulas and knife a fork and all kinds of stuff
I went
I signed up for class because then again, you someone to guide you
you get the tools you don't
Yeah. *
feel like buying.
I made a necklace that I saw in a gallery for three hundred twenty dollars .
It took me a lot of time
it didn't,
if it cost me twenty dollars,
And your time,
then you're that much farther ahead .
Then I saw of these country looking wood watermelons.
It was a solid watermelon with a wedge cut out of it.
I've seen them
the watermelon, the red seeds painted in
That's neat.
I went there,
we have Home Depot out here.
I don't know if you've heard of it.
I went
I got
We have one.
two six foot inch thick boards turned into a watermelon.
I had to cut into slabs and build up this big square and turn it on the lath
cutting that wedge out was no joke .
I did it
A band saw?
through Adult Ed again.
I did it through Adult Ed again.
the teacher was one of these negative people,
that's dangerous,
we can't do that,
we just can't do that.
I'm going how about this way?
want to do that,
that was the plan here .
we did get the wedge cut out by building some kind of
A cradle for it.
a cradle for it.
so you can steady it
you used a handsaw or a backsaw?
said use a coping saw
there's no coping saw big enough a fourteen inch wide watermelon that
he wanted me to do it by hand with a regular saw.
I said I'm not that steady,
it's not going to happen.
we built a cradle for it
cut out
getting the other one out without the slice now flying in your face was something you had to think about .
did you cut a quarter wedge in this?
I'd say it's about an eighth.
jus ,
envisioning, like a log
what I've seen of this kind before is you have the,
if you're looking at adding on you have,
Up here in Rochester, we're the second cleanest metropolitan city as far as air pollution.
I think Grand Rapids was number one.
we really don't have too much of a problem as far as, industry since we're pretty technologically based as far as our industry in the city here.
But we do have the same problem a lot of ar , other areas up here in the northeast have
and that is the effects of acid rain.
Com , coming basically from coal plants in Ohio and Illinois and Indiana.
Well, tha , that's true.
Actually down here we don't have a big problem with, with air pollution.
Mainly because we don't have anybody to th , to either side of us.
which helps out a lot as far as that goes.
I wouldn't even necessarily thought of that except when I lived up in Boston and up in, you know,
debates would come up up there in Massachusetts and, you know, in that area over, air pollution
and their attitude's, basically, well, prevailing ins, winds are to the east
so why should we have to worry.
I've, I've, was in Los Angeles once
and that was quite a difference as far as pollution goes.
I mean you couldn't really see that much .
Every once in a while we have these air inversions, the weather
Oh, yes
and then it gets hazy around here
but they're really,
we don't have a big problem with it.
I think that, what most of the people here in New York state are going after right now is,
it's, it's the, ongoing acid rain problem.
Especially out in the, Adirondack areas where, you know, the lakes are becoming, changing the acidity of the lakes
and we're having problems now because the fish are dying and certain acidic loving plants, or alkaline liking plants are j , not lasting anymore because the soil levels, the p H is changing
as this acid rain continues to fall.
And I know that there's been battles over the states up here.
you know, Governor Mario going after, you know, governors of Ohio and Il , and Indiana to fix what's going on down there.
I remember when I was in Florida,
the only problem was that it seemed like it may,
it wasn't really pollution, just the steamy weather .
Oh absolutely,
just muggy.
So, yes
I think,
I think you're right.
Our most pollute substance down here is just water.
But I
I, I, I think, you know, the biggest causes even then a lot of times are, like when I was up in Boston just all the cars. You know, just all over the place.
You just got a lot of, you know, a lot of pollution from those
and, you know, if you don't have a wind, it sticks around.
Oh, yeah.
I, you know, I was in Boston once
and I remembered seeing some of these things coming through at rush hour, even with the Tee.
just this, it looked like billions of cars massing
and if they sit there and then there's nowhere for the air to go.
I mean, yeah, that's what's in, you know, Los Angeles is,
I think that's biggest problem
because when I was in Los Angeles for a time, it's all, you know, from Los Angeles to San Diego it's like all city.
And there's really, there's nowhere for this to be absorbed, really.
tree planting sometimes can handle, you know, stopping some of the air pollution and that and help
but if you have nowhere to do anything.
That's, that's very true.
you know, of course then when, when you're not recycling, you've got these incendiary plants and stuff, that can give you some pretty disgusting stuff going up in the atmosphere.
But I, you know, you've got, you've got the industry,
you've got that,
and you got the cars.
I think the cars are where, where it's at right now as far as pollution goes, air pollution I mean.
I, you know, Florida doesn't seem to be, at least maybe Miami,
but I, I, you know,
Fort Lauderdale I, I don't know what the big industries are down there,
but, you know, up here we have Kodak
and that's the worst polluter.
They put,
you can smell ether in the air sometimes .
It keeps the neighborhoods happy I guess.
I guess so.
cause they clean the, the lenses for cameras
and they, they make film here
and they're the worst offender
but it's, you know, it's under so much control.
You know, sulphur dioxide is the big emittant from them
but that's really getting under control now.
I, you know, I don't know in ((the)) air what they do.
I, I haven't run across any major pollutants down there that I've, I've really seen a lot of, you know, ((upsettedness)) about.
I, I know I've seen like,
my grandparents live in Corpus Christi, Texas
and I know they've, there's a lot of refineries down there
and that, that's some pretty potent stuff they put up in the air.
I, but I don't know how, you know,
there's a difference in what you can smell and what you, you know, what's bad.
Be interesting to see when, as Mexico develops industrially whether, you know, without,